Users & Their Needs
Prototypical User Groups
User Group
	Description
	Ways the project can progress
	Board of Directors
	Members who serve on the board of directors including the CEO, CFO and outside council
	The CEO does not want information presented ad hoc during meetings, so focusing on this user group might entail a new way to interact with already existing and prepared information. Presentation of data, visualization, and highlighting/sharing tools might be a potential deliverable. The facilitation of decision making (a more physical form of Robert's Rules) might have potential.
	Managing Committee
	The C-class members of the company (CEO, CFO, COO, CIO)
	A way to connect the various sub-divisions to get all members on the same page. We would like to use information for leverage. Independent electronic devices can divert attention. A device that creates a shared user experience can hold group attention. This device may make it difficult to multi-task, thus keeping you focused on what is happening. Capturing information is difficult while maintaining full attention to the conversation. This device may go dark when conversation is between board members and attention is diverted from the technology. The conch shell idea from Lord of the Flies has potential.
	Administrative Assistants
	The assistants to the C-class members
	These assistants are responsible for data preparation. Assistants are trying to respond all the time to try and keep up. A way to help record information from meetings may be useful to access it later.
	Management
	Heads of departments and subdivisions, project leads
	These people are doing more technical, raw work, may interact with engineers, and are trying to influence executives to make decisions. We may want to help employees show their ideas to convince upper management of particular decisions. Project leads may call meetings ad hoc–information might be needed on the spot. A data query system, or access to a system, may be valuable to emergency meetings. Seeing data in terms of other data can influence decisions.
	Engineers
	Individuals who perform day-to-day activities such as R&D
	Engineers hate preparing test information to present in a PowerPoint format. A way to make the data preparation aspect more exciting could ease their job. It is difficult to distill information when much has been collected.
	Sales Department
	Members responsible for impressing clients and making sales
	They have one shot to impress customers in a boardroom. A room should be high tech and comfortable. The sales department wants to capture the attention of the customer.The boardroom needs to be memorable–it should be different than anything the client would expect. HP has an office with a gigantic tree in the middle.
	IT Department
	People who interact directly with raw data or are responsible for data query
	HPI will have a much better description of this.
	

User Interview Findings
1. The CEO does not want new information presented ad-hoc during meetings with the board of directors.
2. Boardroom meetings for the managing committee are action oriented and govern the fortune of the company. (I would argue the managing committee makes decisions about projects/products and the board of directors makes decisions about the highest-level financial fortune) the board of directors approves items like aquisitions, but the managing committee has to put that through, although i do agree that i do not like the wording. just gettting something down to edit ya 
3. There appears to be a large disconnect between how the IT department would like to operate and what is best for the future of the company (can be written better)
4. 

Hang on one sec… Can we go ahead and say that Gerard is in Middle Management for Siemens?  This makes sense, right?  I’m simply wanting to make sure we connect Gerard to one of the previosuly-identified categories of possible users.  And I want us to be deliberate and specific, after having considered the full range.  Wow.  Go for it Gerard.  I’m fine with that.  Siemens = 400,000+ employees, so it makes sense that Gerard would have some pull.  We should position Gerard at that threshold where we believe he will more fully appreciate the forthcoming design solution between internal reporting within a division, and having to prep or compile for higher level execs.  
← this
I say we mention both categories and say in our user interview findings why we can do this. im good with that, are we going to write upper management though because it is not one of our categories


I propose to change “middle management” to “upper management” or just “management”, I think middle management is almost a negative term (maybe it’s just me.  100%
i am good changing it to management. We can mention that this encompasses a lot of the needs of high level executives as well. yeah. I like it because anyone from a large project lead to a senior vp of a division deal in between the c-class and the engineers/it


then its done, managemtn it is  “Division Management?”  Better yet, to use Siemens’ term, “Sector Management?”


I think we are all kinda on the same page.  Whatever Gerard is, let’s please make sure we pre-introduced his category in the “Prototypical User Groups” before introducing him and his particular role.


User Persona
Name: Gerard
Age: 54
Position: Senior Vice President, GlobalTech Inc.
Likes: Family time, professionalism, golf, squash, his dog, conciseness
Dislikes: Traffic, procrastination, preparing slides, irrelevant information, (SAP software[lol])


Needs: Gerard commutes to and from work and uses mobile technology to stay up-to-date.
Why are they worth addressing:
Still to discover:


Does his best thinking while pacing in his office.  Has a putter in his office and enjoys the occasional hitting into a paper cup, but doesn’t have the time between work and family to hit the Links like he used to.
For reference:
[a]
Update from HPI


Further Exploration


[a]very skinny, stubby legs, balding