Users and Their Needs

Prototypical User Groups
User Group
	Description
	Ways the project can progress
	Board of Directors
	Members who serve on the board of directors including the CEO, CFO and outside council
	A new way to interact with already existing and prepared information. Presentation of data, visualization, and highlighting/sharing tools might be a potential deliverable. The facilitation of decision making (a more physical form of Robert's Rules) might have potential.
	Managing Committee
	The C-class members of the company (CEO, CFO, COO, CIO)
	A way to connect the various sub-divisions to get all members on the same page. Independent electronic devices can divert attention. A device that creates a shared user experience can hold group attention. This device may make it difficult to multi-task, thus keeping you focused on what is happening. Capturing information is difficult while maintaining full attention to the conversation.
	Administrative Assistants
	The assistants to the C-class members
	These assistants are responsible for data preparation. Assistants are trying to respond all the time to try and keep up. A way to help record information from meetings may be useful to access it later.
	Management
	Heads of departments and subdivisions, project leads
	These people are doing more technical, raw work, may interact with engineers, and are trying to influence executives to make decisions. Project leads may call meetings ad hoc–information might be needed on the spot. A data query system, or access to a system, may be valuable to emergency meetings.
	Engineers
	Individuals who perform day-to-day activities such as R&D
	Engineers hate preparing test information to present in a PowerPoint format. A way to make the data preparation aspect more exciting could ease their job. It is difficult to distill information when much has been collected.
	Sales Department
	Members responsible for impressing clients and making sales
	They have one shot to impress customers in a boardroom. A room should be high tech and comfortable. The sales department wants to capture the attention of the customer.The boardroom needs to be memorable–it should be different than anything the client would expect.
	IT Department
	People who interact directly with raw data and query it.
	HPI will have a much better description of this.
	

User Interview Findings
The information points below helped focus the user persona down to a single group.
1. The CEO does not want new information presented ad-hoc during meetings with the board of directors. A data query system may not be practical for this group.
2. Managers and the managing committee hold action oriented meetings. This group contains many employees who make significant decisions for the company.
3. There appears to be a large disconnect between how the IT department would like to operate and what is best for the future of the company. A solution may want to focus on getting the IT department on the same page as management and executives.
4. We would like to use information for leverage. Cross-linking departments and streamlining the distillation of information can lead to better and more efficient decisions.
5. Many boardrooms are already equipped with the most state-of-the-art technology. To make the boardroom memorable, a drastic change might be in order (i.e. getting rid of the table).


User Persona
The chosen persona for our project falls under the management user group. This group is responsible for thousands of employees in Siemens. Managers constantly need to access data and make decisions that can shape the outcome of their departments or projects. This user group also encompasses many of the needs of high level executives--ideas such as a device that creates a shared user experience still benefits managers. Managers fall between and deal with both C-class executives and engineers/IT.


Name: Gerard                                Age: 54
User Group: Management                Position: Senior Vice President, GlobalTech Inc.
Likes: Family time, professionalism, golf, squash, his dog, conciseness
Dislikes: Traffic, procrastination, preparing slides, irrelevant information, SAP software


Needs: Gerard commutes to and from work and uses mobile technology to stay up-to-date. He may call ad-hoc meetings where new information will be presented on-the-spot. He needs a way to access this information as well as capture any new information presented. He also needs to hold the attention of his employees so that meetings can be efficient and end on time.
Why are they worth addressing: The information produced by Gerard and his group will be distilled as it moves to the executives who determine the future of the company. Gerard is also responsible for many employees, so he must have a way to efficiently view and capture all of the information presented to him without losing anything valuable.
Still to discover: Is this the user group Siemens imagined while designing the prompt? Is a data query system necessary for the project, or does optimizing the decision making process satisfy the requirements?


Further Exploration
* Meeting at VMware with VP of Finance and Director of Facilities in their boardroom
* Meeting to see boardroom for Johnsnon & Johnson and talk to employees