ME 310 SGM 11/14/13 | Siemens Group | Users and Their Needs

Prototypical User Groups
User Group
	Description
	Ways the project can progress
	Board of Directors
	Members who serve on the board of directors including the CEO, CFO and outside council
	A new way to interact with already existing and prepared information. Presentation of data, visualization, and highlighting/sharing tools might be a potential deliverable. The facilitation of decision making (a more physical form of Robert's Rules) might have potential.
	Managing Committee
	The C-class members of the company (CEO, CFO, COO, CIO)
	A way to connect the various sub-divisions to get all members on the same page. Independent electronic devices can divert attention. A device that creates a shared user experience can hold group attention. This device may make it difficult to multi-task, thus keeping you focused on what is happening. Capturing information is difficult while maintaining full attention to the conversation.
	Administrative Assistants
	The assistants to the C-class members
	Assistants are responsible for data preparation and schedule management. Executives heavily rely on their assistants for organization and communication. A way to help record information from meetings may be useful to access it later, or an interesting way to prepare boardrooms.
	Management
	Heads of departments and subdivisions, project leads
	These people are closer to technical work, may interact with engineers, and are trying to influence the C-class to make decisions. Project leads may call meetings, and ad hoc information might be needed on the spot. A data query system, or access to a system, may be valuable to emergency meetings.
	Engineers
	Individuals who perform day-to-day activities such as R&D
	Engineers hate preparing their work to present in slide decks. A way to make the data preparation aspect more exciting could ease their job. It is difficult to distill information smartly from massive troves of raw data. When engineers are in the boardroom, it likely represents their important findings and is their moment to shine.
	Sales Department
	Members responsible for impressing clients and making sales
	They have one shot to impress customers in a boardroom. A room should be high tech and comfortable. The sales department wants to capture the attention of the customer. The boardroom needs to be memorable–it should be different than anything the client would expect.
	IT Department
	People who interact directly with raw data and query it
	IT staff combine raw information sources and provide systems to access and understand them. Any way to simplify the way executives or engineers access data would help them. Also, ways to make meetings more independent.
	

User Interview Findings
The information points below helped focus the user persona down to a single group.
1. The CEO does not want new information presented ad-hoc during meetings with the board of directors. A data query system may not be practical for this group.
2. Managers and the managing committee hold action oriented meetings. This group contains the employees who make significant decisions for the company.
3. There appears to be a large disconnect between how the IT department would like to operate and what helps the business operation of the company. A solution may want to focus on getting the IT department on the same page as management and executives.
4. We would like to use information for leverage. Cross-linking departments and streamlining the distillation of information can lead to better and more efficient decisions.
5. Having an avant-garde boardroom is important to corporations, not only for impressing clients but also for keeping executives and board members excited about the company.
6. Many boardrooms are already equipped with state-of-the-art technology. To make the boardroom memorable, a drastic change might be in order (i.e. getting rid of the table).


User Persona
The chosen persona for our project falls under the management user group. Members of this group are each responsible for thousands of employees at Siemens. Managers constantly need to access data and make decisions that shape the outcome of their departments and projects. This user group encompasses many needs of the C-class, but they also have the needs of more technical employees of accessing, distilling, and visualizing information.


Name: Gerard                                Age: 54
User Group: Management                Position: Senior Vice President, GlobalTech Inc.
Likes: Family time, professionalism, golf, squash, his dog, conciseness
Dislikes: Traffic, procrastination, preparing slides, irrelevant information, clunky software


Needs: Gerard commutes to and from work and uses mobile technology to stay up-to-date. He may call ad-hoc meetings where new information will be presented on the spot. He needs a way to access this information as well as capture any new information presented. He also needs to hold the attention of his employees so that meetings can be efficient and end on time. He needs to be able to remotely conduct meetings during his frequent work travels. Gerard is often frustrated with the response time and many miscommunications with his IT staff.


Why are they worth addressing: The information produced by Gerard and his group will be distilled as it moves to the executives who determine the future of the company. Gerard is also responsible for many employees, so he must have a way to efficiently view and capture all of the information presented to him without losing anything valuable.


Next Steps
* Meeting at VMware boardroom with VP of Finance and Director of Facilities (4pm)
* Meeting at Johnson & Johnson boardroom and talk to employees (tomorrow)
* Identifying and discovering requirements, critical functions, and critical experiences