Table of contents
Table of contents
Introduction
Executive summary
Table of Contents
List of figures
List of tables
Glossary
Context
Need statement
Problem statement
Business Opportunity
Silver Economy
Design team
The ENPC team
The HPI team
Fabian Tschirschnitz
Rakesh Kumar Sah
Corporate Partner - Lapeyre
Corporate Liaisons
Coaches
Teaching Team
Design development
Project Preparation - KickOff Meeting
Development overview
Stakeholder finding
Needfinding
List of experts and users we interviewed
Physical problems of elderly in the bathroom
List of disabilities
Evolution of these disabilities
Dependency: a consequence of disabilities and a non adapted environment
Consequences when it is not adapted
Psychology of the elderly
Interview of people and reaction
Rejection
Acceptance
How to explain these reactions
The identity of the elderly
Perceived age and actual age
first micro signs of oldness
mirror effect
The social aspect
The acceptation point
Adaptation is always postponed
An accelerator of oldness
Adaptation as late as possible - the consequences
Insights and observations
Global insight on the bathroom
The buying experience
3.5.6.1  General insights on the store
3.5.6.1.1.  Organisation of the store
3.5.6.1.2 Bathroom products at Lapeyre
3.5.6.1.3. Clients
Derived Design requirements
Functional Requirements
Safety
Accessibility
Adaptability
Practicality
Non-Functional Requirements
Aesthetics
Comfortability
Simplicity
Organizational Issues of Renovating the Bathroom
Elderly Home vs. Home Care vs. Alternative Living Concept
Benchmarking
How products for elderlies are sold in France ?
Companies on the market
How those companies advertise their solutions?
Medical equipment retailer
Companies which offer solutions to change quickly a bathtub into a shower
Big and famous bathroom retailer
High standard companies which developed special ranges for elderly
Interesting solutions
Floor
Handle
Global wash
Shower
Italian shower
Tools to wash yourself
Stool/bench/ …
Bathtub
Bathtub with a Door
To sit in a bathtub
Bathtub chair
Bathtub bench
Bath Lift
Change your bathtub into a shower
Ideal Change by Ideal Standard: installation possible by everyone
Kinemagic by Kinedo: a various range
Easy Shower: the best
Face preparation
Wash basin
Tap
Toilet
Toilet Seat Booster
Adjustable toilet
Japanese toilet
Toilet paper holder
Intelligent toilet
Satis
Daiwa  House
Toilet support bar
Prototypes, Evaluation & Design Vision
Brainstorming and Ideation
Drying
Security in the bathroom
getting into the bathtub
washing and reaching all body parts
CEP
Old suits
Our prototype
Prototype
French
Which need does it answer?
As explained before, elderly with stiffness and balance issues have a lot of difficulty to to access to head shower, soap and all kind of tools that they can be used in the shower (rasor, brush, gloves…). What’s more it can be tiring to keep in hand shower head and especially difficult to wash oneself with it in hand. Finally, when people have a seat in their shower, the position of head shower can be difficult to settle if it needs to work for people seated or not. The aim of our prototype was to answer to those issues
Description
German
Which need does it answer?
Description
Testing and Learnings
Ideas for Further Development of this Idea
Project planning and management
Deliverables and milestones
Project budget
Distributed Team Management
Reflections and goal
Resources
Bibliography
Appendix
Full Interview Transcripts
Needfinding tools
Stakeholder map
Context map
Fall Brochure


________________
1. Introduction
   1. Executive summary
   2. Table of Contents
   3. List of figures
   4. List of tables
   5. Glossary


1. Context
   1. Need statement
The well-known French building material manufacturer and provider Lapeyre wants to increase their market share and provide an easily adaptable bathroom product for their elderly clients. So far, this kind of product category is basically missing completely from their selection.
The Design thinking task for our team is to “Reinvent the elderlies’ experience in the bathroom to increase autonomy in their house”. The original target group given from the Lapeyre side are 55-70 year old people, who own a house in a semi-urban area in France. 
   1. Problem statement
When getting older, people start to have all kinds of physical impairments. Those disabilities can even have such a great influence, that they start to limit the everyday life of the elderly. In addition, the current bathrooms are not adapted to fulfill these requirements. In fact, it can be more like a burden than a pleasure for the elderly with disabilities, to do all those small activities in the bathroom. This again leads to the loss of autonomy which means that the elderly need more help at their homes or they even have to move away from their homes to get some help from the elderly homes. 
   1. Business Opportunity 
      1. Silver Economy
Because of the “baby boom” generation, there will be a massive increase in the amount of the elderly in most of the European countries, in the following years. Today in France, there are already 22 million people who are over 50[a] years old but only 6% of the houses are adapted for them. This also means that the demand of products designed for the elderly is significantly increasing. From the total consumption, the elderly present already 54%.














   1. Design team
      1. The ENPC team




Florence Mathieu



Status: student in a master of industrial engineering Ponts ParisTech
Contact: florence.mathieu1@gmail.com
 
I’m one of the two French student in the team, originally from Lyon. Being an industrial engineer at ENPC I was able to put into practice my industrial background during a one-year training in two big French companies. I discovered Design Thinking and innovation processes during my first year of master degree. Creative, I wanted to commit myself in a tangible project that’s why I joined the ME310 program at the d.school of Paris-Est at ENPC. I chose to work on the Lapeyre project which is a perfect mix of innovation and industrial issues. As free time, I  enjoy a lot discovering new things and new cultures and my biggest hobbies are travelling and sailing.















Benjamin Nussbaumer
Status: student in a master of industrial engineering Ponts ParisTech
Contact: benjamin.nussbaumer@gmail.com
                                
Born and raised in Paris, I’m the other French student in the team. My second year in the Industrial Engineering department gave me a taste of what could be innovation with the culture of design thinking. I wanted to know more about this culture and apply it on tangible projects.
Last year, I studied the guitar at the Los Angeles Music Academy. I love music ; I love the freedom in creativity it gives you. That’s one of the many reasons I’ve chosen to join the ME310 adventure: to combine these feelings with engineering. Finally, elderly are endearing people. being able to help them concretely was a major motivation to choose this subject.
                                




Rocío Alejandra Mejia Quijano

Status: 5th year Civil Engineering in Javeriana University-Colombia
Contact: alejandra4890@hotmail.com


Born and raised in the beautiful city of Cali, Colombia. I am in my last year of Civil Engineering specialized in Structural Design and Road infrastructure. Since childhood I have distinguished myself as a whole person full of leadership, creative, intelligent, dedicated, outgoing, friendly and very responsible. I have worked during five years  in innovative programs, before I was living one year in Sydney, Australia, then a couples of months in New York, USA and now I was selected to attend to the program at the École des Ponts in Paris, France for one year. Innovate and design thinking  are my passion, be part of the ME310 in Paris have been one of the most amazing experiences in my life. 


Kati Arvonen





Status:  Master student in Aalto University (Wood product Technology) Exchange student at ENPC Contact: kati.arvonen@aalto.fi
                                                   
I am a Finnish exchange student at ENPC in Paris. I have studied wood product technology in Finland because I love Finnish nature and want to learn, how to utilize it in the most ecological and efficient way. In France I am studying design thinking and industrial engineering. For me, ME310 is an opportunity to meet great people, work with interesting challenges and learn something new in a multicultural and multidisciplinary team.
                                
                        
                




      1. The HPI team


Anita Dieckhoff

Status: Master student at Hasso-Plattner-Institute Potsdam
Contact: anita.dieckhoff@student.hpi.uni-potsdam.de


My name is Anita Dieckhoff and I study IT-Systems Engineering, just like the whole HPI team. In 2009 I spent one year in the people’s republic of China, where I was working as an english teacher.
I love working in a creative environment, which is why I enrolled in the ME310 course. Everybody in the team is very committed to the project and willing to make the best out of this year. It is great to be working with these people.




Johannes Jasper


Status: Master student at Hasso-Plattner-Institute, Potsdam.
Contact: mail@johannesjasper.de

I am Johannes Jasper from Berlin and I study IT-Systems Engineering together with my team mates. The design thinking approach taught at the d.school impressed me deeply as it enabled me to work creatively and built empathy with people I did not know before. This enthusiasm made me apply for the ME310 program. Working with software in my everyday life, I had the impression of losing touch with the people we help with my work. This is why I chose this very tangible project that aims at tackling a huge demographic problem. The cooperation with the french team adds a whole new perspective on the topic and I very much enjoy the creative commitment everyone shows.
Fabian Tschirschnitz
Status: Master student at Hasso-Plattner-Institute Potsdam
Contact: fabian.tschirschnitz@student.hpi.uni-potsdam.de


My name Fabian Tschirschnitz, I am 26 years old and also studying IT-Systems Engineering. During my civil service I was able to work for and together with old people. During the last years of university my focus was very concentrated on IT related topics and I enjoy the possibility to work in a project now which gives me a broader view on this topic again. Also the chance to utilize the Design Thinking methodology in a long running project attracts me very much. To work in an international context for a French company together with my French partner team completes the picture.
Rakesh Kumar Sah
Status : Master Student at Hasso Plattner Institute at University of Potsdam, Germany
Contact : rakesh_sah2005@hotmail.com
My name is Rakesh Kumar Sah and I am from Nepal, currently doing my Masters in IT Systems Engineering at Hasso Plattner Institute. It is my great pleasure to be part of such a multicultural and multidisciplinary team coming from diversified backgrounds where the noble approaches, concentrations and innovations are focussed on improving the quality of life  for elderly people. It obviously makes me proud, that I am the only  international student from the German team working for the project Lapeyre. Regardless of everything, no words could be found to describe the beauty of design thinking. I am gaining the fine  and unparalleled experience of designing  products  and thinking in a creative fashion.






   1. Corporate Partner - Lapeyre

Lapeyre is a subsidiary of Saint-Gobain corporation and it manufactures and distributes home improvement products for renovation and  building purposes to professionals and private customers. Windows, doors, kitchen and bathroom products are their core business. Their annual turnover is €1.57 Billion.


So far, Lapeyre is not very well known for the bathroom products and they currently have only few products for elderly. This is why the company would like to develop its offer on this field and gain a market share from these customers.


Our contact person from the Lapeyre side is the Director of marketing Jean-Philippe Arnoux with whom we have been exchanging information weekly. A great opportunity to do some research on the field and get a better understanding of Lapeyre customers was offered to us in Lapeyre Nice-Est store, thanks to Alain Meinardi
 
   1. Corporate Liaisons


Our team has been very lucky to have an opportunity to work in collaboration with an elderly house in Bry-sur-Marne, suburb of Paris. Our main contacts in Foundation Favier have been Mr Tourisseau, (director), Mrs Manapany (nurse in charge of SSIAD), Mariana (ergotherapist), Mme Rennesson, (physiotherapist manager) and a team of 14 visiting nurses. The have also received valuable information from many inhabitants in Foundation Favier.


   1. Coaches
Stéphane Gauthier has a long history in the design thinking and we were lucky to have him to be our coach. Franziska Häger which is currently doing her PhD at the HPI and Cornelius Illi  who is currently writing his Master’s thesis about global collaboration processes are the coaches of the German team. Both have already a lot experience in implementing the Design Thinking process in a business scale.




   1. Teaching Team
In Paris, the teaching team consist of the d.school dean Véronique Hillen and inspectrice Claire Fiszer as well as the three teaching assistants Mathieu Spiry, Mathieu Chabasse and Aurélien Sibiril.
In Potsdam, we have five teachers: Franziska Häger and Thomas Kowark are our course instructors, whilst Cornelius Illi, Kai Adrian Rollmann and Gerardo Navarro-Suarez are our Teaching Assistants.
   1. Design development
   1. Project Preparation - KickOff Meeting
On the 7th November we had the chance to enjoy the Kickoff-Meeting with our company liaison in the Lapeyre headquarter in Aubervilliers. Jean-Philippe Arnoux and several other representatives from Lapeyre took part as well as both student teams and their teaching assistants and teachers.
The agenda was about introducing each other, getting to know the most important facts about Lapeyre and understanding their targetting on the market for elderly people, discussing the student's questions and finally having a walk through the Lapeyre store.
 Lapeyre wants to focus on the "Silver economy" because so far no one is really offering products especially to them. This generation wants to buy long lasting products of good quality current products for elderly are rather ugly. We learned that in 2013 Lapeyre started a first prototype program called ISA (Inspiration, Seduction, Adaption)) targetting especially elderly people. They found out that the used logo (a pictogram of a stereotypic old man) did not work very well. In the future the image of the campaign shall be more like "spanning generations", because one big insight so far is that older people actually do not want to feel old. In general we learned for example that 50% of customers renew the whole bathroom and 50% replace just some parts. While spending approximately 1000€/m² when renovating the bathroom, a current trend is to replace bath tubs with showers. As one example aiming that issue Lapeyre sells a shower solution for elderly people with an optional seat and handle bars that easily replaces a bath tube.
During our project we shall keep safety and ergonomics always in our mind.




   1. Development overview
In ME310 we use the Design Thinking approach to understand the users’ needs and solve their problems. Design thinking refers to the method of finding an innovative solution to an abstract or ill-defined problem. It attempts to structure the ideation process and provides guidelines, methodologies and frameworks that help in problem forming, -solving and -design. Design thinking is a human-centered approach with multidisciplinary collaboration and iterative improvements to produce innovative products, systems and services. There are various interpretations and definitions of design thinking. We refer to design thinking as defined by the Hasso Plattner Institute of Design at Stanford and Potsdam. In this definition the design thinking process contains six different phases, which are pictured in the figure below. The process is not linear, which is indicated by the connections amongst different non-succeeding phases. Every instance of a design thinking project is different. It is possible to jump back and forth between the different phases as you encounter new inflection points. 
In the following, we briefly explain the aim of each phase as they also reflect the pathway in the course of our project and the structure of this report.





   1. Stakeholder finding
To identify all the different participants involved in our project and to fulfill their needs, a first step in the process was to collect all stakeholders and to cluster them reasonably afterwards.
The main stakeholder group is of course also the targeted customer group: elderly people in the age of 55+ years. Because this means a big and especially growing group of the typical population of a western’s country society, we decided to split this group into several reasonable sub-groups. All other stakeholders are connected to this group in a very specific way. For example the “Installation Maintenance” group which has to deal with all things related to installation and maintenance of the future solution. This group includes planners like architects and executors like plumbers and craftsmen. Feasibility, installation effort and time, and legal requirements are only some of their concerns.

Another possible clustering and focus is shown in the figure below. This approach intends to identify all the different stakeholders within Lapeyre.[b][c]
[d][e]
   1. Needfinding
   1. List of experts and users we interviewed
To better understand elderly issues, we interviewed several experts, especially with the help of our partnership with Fondation Favier. We also interviewed several users to understand their needs. Finally, we also exchanged with Lapeyre employees to better understand Lapeyre constraints and operating. 
Elderly  experts 
Who
	Function
	Why ?
	Mr Tourisseau
	Fondation Favier Director
	Understand issues of elderly, needs in the bathroom, signification of autonomy.
	Mme Rennesson
	Health manager Fondation Favier
	""
	Mme Manapany
	Nurse in charge of home care services at Fondation Favier
	·           Understand needs of visiting nurses in a bathroom
·           Understand elderly issues in their bathroom at home
·           Visit the bathroom of people having visiting nurse
	Team of visiting practical nurses
	Practical nurses
	Understand needs that they have or people they help have in their bathroom
	Dr Mathieu
	Physiotherapist doctor
	Understand elderly disabilities
	Mariana
	Occupational Therapist Fondation Favier
	·           Understand needs of elderly from an occupational therapist point of view.
·           Visit elderly's bathroom at Fondation Favier
·           Test our prototype
	Mr Schmitt
	Part of many elderly associations
	Get his feedbacks and contacts
	Martina Fink
	Ergo Therapist
	Understand problems of the elderly and learn how to prolong autonomy
	Steffen Zierl
	Plumber
	Learn more about practical and organizational issues when renovating a bathroom
	Thorsten Schneider
	Planner and installer specialized in accessible homes
	Learn about the current market situation and about organizational issues (e.g. health care)
	Mrs. X
	Health Insurance
	Learn about state support
	Mr. X
	Maltry - Supplier of rehabilitation equipment
	Understand functional requirements and market situation
	Petra Dieckhoff
	Nurse for paraplegic patients
	Understand the problems (also psychological) of disabled persons
	

Users 


Who
	Age
	Type of home
	Why ?
	Martine  Bazin
	62
	Flat
	Understand her activities into the bathroom and needs
	Angèle Bourkins
	81
	Flat
	""
	Roger Bourkins
	81
	Flat
	""
	Jacqueline Chomette
	89
	Flat
	""
	Mrs Dautheir
	92
	Flat with visiting aid
	""
	Mrs Ravaud
	70
	Flat
	""
	Mrs. F
	80+
	Retirement house
	""
	Mrs. B
	80+
	Retirement house
	""
	Sylvie Cadoux
	63 yo
	Flat
	Extreme user with bathtub
	John Gedge
	62
	Flat
	Have their point of view on senior bathroom / understand activities and needs
	Francoise Mathieu
	64
	Home
	Have their point of view on senior bathroom / understand expresssed needs
	Josée Brouillet
	72
	Home
	Have their feedback on senior bathroom
	Claudine Nussbaumer
	57
	Home
	""
	Etienne Nussbaumer
	60
	Home
	""
	Mrs. B
	91
	Flat with visiting aid
	Visit a bathroom and understand the difficulties for a visiting aid
	Mrs X.
	45
	Home with visiting aid
	Visit an adapted bathroom for a handicap person
	





   1. Physical problems of elderly in the bathroom
   1. List of disabilities
While  getting older, people lose some of  their functional abilities. What symptoms this expresses in strongly depends on the individual person. However, without illness, we can sum up those functional disabilities that people can get while getting older  in 4 categories :
·      Loss of balance
·      Muscles weakness
·      Stiffness
·      Degeneration of sense (sight, ears, touch)
- cognitive ability
- Prehension ability
We can go further in that description and represents all the disabilities a person can get  with that diagram.






















On that diagram we can represent the disabilities of several people, but we can not give a general outline - for example depending on the age. Some persons will have several of those disabilities,  others only one, some on their right side, others on the left one.
It is possible to simulate those impairments by what we call a “grand age accelerator”. This is a costume which reproduces all the impairments listed above. Especially, it reduces suppleness by reducing ranges of several movements, muscle strength by adding weight on arms and legs, and sensitive capacities by diminishing field of view, auditive capacities and finger feeling. 
   1. Evolution of these disabilities


The disabilities listed above can appear at different ages. Some people might get them very early, others much later. Those disabilities might not change for several years and become more numerous in few years.
«There is no general truth about age and elderly disabilities, it really depends on the person», Dr. Mathieu
Conclusion: a segmentation by age isn’t especially relevant while speaking about seniors. One, using their disabilities might be more appropriate, but it can be difficult to establish because of the  characteristics of each person.
Falling could be a big  accelerator of disabilities. Indeed, each year 400 000 elderly fall in France. When a person falls, the risk to fall again during the same year is multiplied by a factor of 20. Falling can have many consequences : 12000 people die each year slipping. Femoral fracture is one of the main consequence of falling that can induce in an important increase of disabilities. Immobilization if a person isn’t able to get up after a fall can also have very important psychological and physical effects, specially after 80 years old. Finally the fear of falling is an important factor of autonomy loss. 
   1. Dependency: a consequence of disabilities and a non adapted environment


A disability is a functional issue : you don’t have the capacity of performing certain tasks anymore. Depending on the type of disability, on its magnitude and on its links with other disability, it can have consequences on autonomy.
However, a disability can be offset by an equipment or a good environment. As an example, if a person isn’t able to reach her back to wash it anymore, she can still use a little brush to reach it. In that case, she are still independent for that action.
Conclusion: the loss of autonomy is due to an increase of disabilities in a non adapted environment.
Autonomy  is complex and difficult to assess. In France, we usually use the assesment scale AGGIR (Autonomie Gérontologie Groupes  ISO Ressource) for evaluating the level of autonomy loss and the level of physical and psychological dependency of people, older than 60 years old, during their daily living activities. This assessment scale is very general and does not describe specific functional disabilities but is used for financial compensation from the state  and generally describes how dependant a person is. The scale has 6 level
   1. Consequences when it is not adapted


When a person either has too many disabilities or does not have the right environment and equipment to offset those disabilities, she is not autonomous anymore for certain activities and she requires help from a third party.
This is especially frequent the case in the bathroom. As washing is not an optional task, it will have some consequences:
   * need of a helper (either close relation, or visiting nurse)
   * necessity to add some medical devices in the bathroom to adapt it : chair, special toilet... 
   * necessity to leave your home and go to specific places for elderly (EPHAD, foyer-logement)
In France, since the creation of APA (Allocation pour l’autonomie), the help of nurses at home is more frequent. Depending on the person, some might first have a helper and then go to retirement home. 
The following figures provide a picture about the average ages in a retirement hoome:
In Fondation Favier, the average  age of people is 83 yo, and they are young. The main reason of their way in a retirement home isn’t functional disabilities but mental issues and incontinence.

   1. Psychology of the elderly
   1. Interview of people and reaction
With these interviews, we wanted to understand what are people’s reactions when we speak about them as elderly, about a potential need to adapt their bathroom, about difficulties they might have, about adding products of the actual offer to adapt their bathroom (handles, seat…).
We chose people from 55 to around 90 years to understand the evolution of their reaction. As seen previously, the people of this age group are totally different even if they are brought together under the name “senior” in French.  And it was very interesting to see the intensity of their reaction, which shows how sensitive this subject is.
We can mainly divide the reactions in two categories: maybe most of the people belong to the first one, they reject this idea with a more or less firm conviction. The other group brings together the people opened to adaptation as presented aforesaid.          
   1. Rejection
This is generally the reaction of people from 55 to 70 years old, still working, soon in retirement or not a long ago retired. But it can be also older people but in good shape physically and mentally. It’s the people we can call young elderly. Here are the reactions:
·          They have almost aggressive reactions: “ If I tell my mother who is 65 to start to adapt her bathroom for when she will be old, she will kick me off”
·          They live with difficulty the retirement stage, feel this question like rubbing it in: “It is still hard to accept to be close from retirement, so please don’t make me feel older that I am.” (60 years old)
·          They don’t want to accept any disabilities, minimise them and often don’t want to associate them with getting older: “Me… if I have difficulties… no, it is for old people!” (70 years old)
·          Even after a fall, they don’t want to change, accepting to adapt their bathroom would be accepting that they are getting old and so accelerate the old age: “Even if I had a very bad fall, I haven’t changed anything, I’ll be forever young!” (57 years old)
·          The adaptation of the bathroom is not at all a priority for them. “There are a lot of more important things to think now than the adaptation of the bathroom” (62 years old)
·          They do not care and just don’t feel concerned by the subject. “Speak to him about that, but not to me.” (66 years old)


   1. Acceptance
In this category of reaction, people have accepted that there is some change in their life due to the old age. They can have one of this reaction or several of them combined.
·          They don’t know what kind of equipment exist and would be ready to adapt their bathroom if we offer them products adapted to their disabilities: “I know that I am disable, of course I would like this product” (81 years old)
·          They accept the fact they have or might have disabilities, that make different tasks much more difficult to do: “If I renovate my bathroom, I will put a big shower, so that it will be adapted if I need a helper” (48 years old)
·          They already have this equipment at home. “


   1. How to explain these reactions
To analyse these reactions, we spoke with specialists in elderly’s psychology and in particular with our coach Stéphane Gauthier, who has done several works on the subject. The question of adaptation and getting older is very tricky to tackle because in our French society people do not want to grow old. We tried together to understand what does it mean to grow older for people, for the person himself but also for a person in a society. 
   1. The identity of the elderly 
   1. Perceived age and actual age
In France, people perceive themselves on average 9 years younger than their actual age. After 65 years, the difference from their actual age to their perceived age is 20 years. People always think they are younger than their body. Thus, when we ask people questions about a bathroom adapted for the elderly, they don’t feel concerned because, according to them, they don’t belong to this category of elderly people. 


   1. first micro signs of oldness
People refuse to grow older. However they often start to feel micro signs of oldness, first features of these impairments. For instance, it becomes more difficult to stand up when they are comfortably sitting on a chair. And they often will have to do it in two times. But because they don’t want to accept it, they often find tricks not to have to show that they have difficulties. For instance, they will sit in front of the chair or put a pillow. And these micro signs are particularly important because they are the first features of the impact of oldness on the daily life.


   1. mirror effect
Objects have an impact on the way people see them. If you use products made for the elderly, it will reflect you an image of elderly, and thus it will make you feel older. And this mirror effect is powerful because it points a reality than people want to hide and don’t want to accept. For the bathroom, if somebody buys a seat made for the elderly and their disabilities, every times he will see or use this seat, it will reflect him his condition.
But actually why don’t they want to get old? It may have to do something with the way elderly are considerate in our actual society, the place they are given and the image the society gave them.  


   1. The social aspect
The elderly are seen totally differently in our French society than in African society for example. In Africa, elderly is synonym with wisdom, respect and knowledge. He has a capital place in the family who takes the best care of him. In France and more globally in the West, it is totally different. A person is at his height at around 40 or 50 years old. But after, his aura decreases with the time. This person is almost used and replaced by another young newcomer. Retired, a person loses his society function. He is not working anymore, it is even said that he is not active anymore. This term shows the consideration that our society has of the stigmatised elderly, and it explains why people are not looking forward to this period of their life.
Moreover, the bathroom is the place where people prepare themselves to go out, from the private place of their house to the society. It is the place of appearance. Some people cannot even leave their house without having transformed their face in their bathroom, hide the wrinkles, colour their face, put their hairs the perfect way… It is a place when people can mask their oldness in order to keep a young look as long as possible. However, more than looking young, people want to feel young. It can require the look, but can also be much deeper than an appearance.
Found thanks to the interviews with people very familiar with elderly psychology, these explanations concerned mostly the first category of reactions. They can be aware of this consideration or can just express a total rejection. But other reactions, such as the ones of the second category, show us that some people went beyond this identity and societal consideration. 


   1. The acceptation point
The acceptation level can be reach either because of the awareness of oldness or an impact of disabilities too important. When we ask these questions to visiting nurses, even some of the late 30 years old told us that if they renovate their bathroom, they will change it in order that it can be adapted to the potential disabilities due to oldness they might have. But these people are special and their working experience gave them a different point of view.
Another possibility can be that the disabilities are too important and do not let any space too any rejection. This kind of people just cannot do things; they do not have the ability anymore to do everything they would like to do. Maybe they have tried to mask these micro signs as long as possible, but now the tricks do not work anymore and need more drastic means to meet the needs of the disabilities. 


   1. Adaptation is always postponed
We saw in the last part that people need to anticipate in order to prevent the physical consequences of a non adapted bathroom. However the elderly and the young elderly does not accept this anticipation that easily as showed our analysis in the last two sections. The psychological part of people have a strong impact on the moment people are ready to adapt their bathroom. 


   1. An accelerator of oldness
For the many reasons explained before, people don’t want to get older; they want to stay young.  In this strike for youth, adapting the bathroom would be against the tide and lead them to the other direction. This is explained in major part by the mirror effect. But this mirror effect is working because of the way these kinds of products are marketed. If we have a look at the actual offer in term of adapted bathroom, the message they convey can actually justify these reactions.
·          Elderly and disable people together: today a lot of store that offer adapted bathroom for elderly issues are the same that sell products for handicapped people. This confusion emphasises the stigmatisation of the elderly.
·          Security first: the major argument currently is the security. The sellers know that fall is a huge problem for elderly and especially in the bathroom. They often use this fear to sell the adapted products. Thus it automatically categorizes them and restricts their impact.


   1. Adaptation as late as possible - the consequences
People have the tendency to wait the last moment to do this adaptation, to delay as far as possible the adaptation that represents currently the going through this acceptation point.
People can either wait to fall one or several times with all the physical consequences on the loss of autonomy, but also with the psychological consequences. After a first fall, people are even more afraid of fall, because they have already lived it once, and have the memory of if.
They may also just wait as long as possible until the disabilities are that important that they cannot deny them anymore. In that case, the psychological impact can even be worse, the arrival of the acceptation point is even more brutal. Indeed, there is the realisation of the lost of you physical ability. This realisation is forced and because this people have tried to postpone it more and more, the breaking point can be violent. The image of young that they wanted to cultivate suddenly disappears. Furthermore, at this time of their life, everything is more complex. The change would become such big of a deal; they do not have the same capacity to adapt to other devices or habits. Thus, they will just get functional medical equipment. At this point, the mirror effect is powerful and remember them these disabilities every time they use it.






As seen, functional and psychological aspects are essential when we speak about senior and bathroom. Those two aspects will have important consequences on the experience of buying a bathroom and using it. Thus, reinventing the elderly experience into the bathroom should not be limited on the use but also on the way we sell them products. Consequently, in the next part we will present insights on those two subjects.
   1. Insights and observations
   1. Global insight on the bathroom
   1. A living place
   1. The bathroom in the house
The bathroom has a capital importance in a house. 98% of the French housing own at least one. 82% have only one, 14% have two bathrooms and 2% have three or more. Furthermore, 42% of the housings of people from 40 to 64 years old own 2 bathrooms. People invest more and more money to renovate it or built a new one. The size of a bathroom is usually from 4 to 11m² with an average size of around 6m². The frequency of replacement is 20 years but some of the people we interviewed had the same bathroom for more than 50 years. The average French spend one hour a day in his bathroom, 14 minutes more in 1999. Finally, the price to built a new bathroom (equipment + installation) is 1000€ /m2.


   1. Pleasure vs functional
From a functional place, the bathroom has more and more a well-being dimension. Until the 70s, the bathroom was mostly for hygiene. The shower was used once a week, the sink for central for a partial wash every day. However, with the release of prohibition in the 70s and the development of the cult of appearance in the 80s, pleasure and well-being emerge. That’s why our interviews showed us these different representations of bathroom and also these different habits.
For some of them, having a shower is strictly functional, but for other it takes other dimensions. It can be well-being but also reflection. “I always think about my work, how I will organize my day” told us Etienne, 60 years old. “The bath allows me to rest, think about nothing in particular, but just rest my mind” told us another person we interviewed.
However, still for some of them, the bathroom remains a functional place where they spend less time as possible. 


   1. Different habits
   1. Frequency 
Some of the people still have this habit of a shower a week, especially older people. This can be due to habits but also due to the loss of ability to have a shower or a bath every day. The other days, they do a partial wash where they wash their intimate parts, face, armpits… The frequency of shower/bath varies depending of people. It is rarely less than once a week and is mostly from 4 to 7 a week.


   1. Bath vs shower
Historically, the bath has always been more present than the shower. Bath goes with pleasure, being covered entirely by water. Some use their bath as therapeutic treatment. For instance, when they have a cold, they will add thyme in the water. We met a woman who was taking a one-hour bath every day, and it was capital moment of the day.
However, this trend tends to change with time and shower seems to gain more and more people. The reasons are various; it goes from water consumption concern to physical incapacity to enter anymore in the bathtub. The gain of place, the fact often people actually use a bathtub as a shower and the change of image of the shower (thanks to product such as Italian shower for example) take part in this evolution.


   1. Private place - shared place
The bathroom is the place of hygiene but also the place of appearance. It is the place people prepare themselves before going outside of their home and join the society. In this place, people are raw, naked, without any artifices to hide something. We wanted to put a camera to observe the different activities in the bathroom, but it was not possible because at this point we touch the intimacy of people. Even brushing your teeth with somebody can be a sign of proximity.
In the other hand, the bathroom is a living place used by all the members of the family and even the guests. It is a place where people can just come wash their hands for 1 minute, leave, come back later for one other minute. Some of the people take a shower with their partner, their children or their grand-children. Bathroom is both a transit and one of the most intimate places in the house.




   1. First insights and needs noticed into the bathroom
   1. Need of an emergency call 
   2. Need of support / stability 
   3. Need of floor preventing falling into the bathroom. 
   4. Need of water temperature control
   5. Need of easy cleanable equipments
   6. Insight on aethetics 
   7. Insights on comfort  






3.4.4.2. Use it - Activities in the bathroom 




After gathering those first insights presented before on the global bathroom, it was essential for us to understand more specifically needs on each spaces of the bathroom. For that purpose, we tried to gather all the insights we got on each part on the bathroom: toilet, washbasin, and shower. However, we understood that it was not appropriate to speak about facilities because there are plenty of things that people do into the bathroom and which are not linked to special equipment. Thus, we tried to focus on all the activities that people and especially elderly do in the bathroom. We can sum up them in four groups: global wash, face preparation, toilet, others. Each of those can be divided again in plenty of activities. In the next part, we will present you insights and need that we identified. 


3.4. 4.2.1. Global wash
3.4.4.2.1.1 General insights
3.4.4.2.1.2 Insight by activities
3.4.4.2.1.3. Main challenges in global wash 


3.4.4.2.2. Face preparation
3.4.4.2.2.1. General insights
3.4.4.2.2.2. Insight by activities
3.4.4.2.2.3. Main challenges in face preparation  


3.4.4.2.3. Toilet


3.4.4.2.4. Others
3.4.4.2.4. 1. General insights
3.4.4.2.4.2. Insight by activities
3.4.4.5.3 Main challenges in others activities  [f]




   1. The buying experience


To better understand how a Lapeyre store works and how a product for senior can be sold in it, we spent three days in a Lapeyre store in Nice.
Nice is a city where many people go for retiring. Thus, there is a special need in that city for bathroom for elderly.
Alain Meinardi, owner and director of Nice-Est Lapeyre puts special efforts on advertising  products for elderly, especially the facilot, the new product from Lapeyre.  That’s the reason why we decided to go to that store to make some observations on the clients, interview some of them and interview salesman.
We got many relevant insights on the type clients they have, the type of products they sale, and how they sell them. All those insights are presented below.  
3.5.6.1  General insights on the store
         3.5.6.1.1.  Organisation of the store
In the bathroom departement, there are two ways of presenting products :
   * Products are showed by category (toilets, washbasin, tap): adapted for a client looking for a specific product.
   * Showroom : global concepts of bathrooms are presented. It’s possible to immerse yourself into a bathroom with a specific shower, shower column, tap, tiles : adapted for clients who wants to be inspired and to visualize how a bathroom with that kind of devices will look like
On each product there are mainly technical details and few advertising on the benefit of them. The main part of the communication on the product is done by the salesman.
 
3.5.6.1.2 Bathroom products at Lapeyre
Lapeyre sells mainly big products and no gadget. The only « little » products they have are the one for supporting toilet paper, toilet brush and soap. That means that we can not create a “small” product because it will be lost in the whole store (except maybe if it’s presented in a global concept or if there is any emphasis made on that product with a label for example). 
 3.5.6.1.3. Clients 
[g][h]


3.5.6.1.4 How clients buy products ? 
While observing clients and asking  salesmen, we got some insights about the way clients buy bathroom products :
• Catalog is key in the purchase: clients often look at it before coming
• 2 types of clients:
-       Some of them know exactly what they need. The salesman only advices them about technical specification on the product and sometimes show them another option with a better product.
-       Some of them don’t know what they want at all: they will first look at the aesthetics and the price of the specific product they need or try to get inspired by a whole concept.  In that type of purchase the salesman have a key role giving them advices and helping them creating their new bathroom
• Priority of salesman: answer to the need of clients. It can be difficult to sell a product where the clients don’t actually see the need (what can be the case when we speak about dissabilities)
• Purchase is often done when a client have a crush on a product. In that case, they won’t be really 
3.5.6.2  Nice store and seniors 
3.5.6.2.1  Senior clients
Many clients coming to Lapeyre are more than 50 yo. But few of them are “really old”. When they are, the usually come with their children. The usual client is a retired man or a couple doing renovation at home. However, several professional come because they are doing some renovation at elderly’s place.
The main demand from elderly is changing their bathtub into a shower. There could be several cases:
• A person who is still in very good health but who want to be prepared for the future or don’t want to use a bathtub anymore
• Children who help their elderly parent to change their bathtub
• Professional who have an order from an elderly to make the change
 Sometimes, people ask for handles and shower stool, but that situation is not as frequent as the change of a bathtub into a shower. 
Those are the only demand from elderly. Otherwise, they don’t ask for specific products : there isn’t a specific need really identified and expressed by senior and that Lapeyre can’t answer. Is it because elderly don’t want to ask for specific products (mirror effect) ? Or they don’t go to Lapeyre for those kind of specific needs but rather to specialised stores ? 
 
3.5.6.2.2. What kind of product they sell for senior ?
Their current offer is quite poor. They currently sell :
- A solution to change a bathtub into a shower : the facilot
- A special tap when you don’t have a lot of strength in arm and difficulties of prehension. 
- Handles
- Fold-up seat for shower
Some insight from clients and salesman are presented in the appendix. 
 
3.5.6.2.3. How they currently sell them ?
Salesman  aren't really aware of elderly disabilities. They usually only answer to the need expressed  by the client. Sometimes they might give advices like adjusting the height of the toilet or the washbasin, be careful about anti-slippery floor, but it depends on the sensibility of sales man).
For the facilot, they developed a specific strategy to sell it. They try to present the solution to all kind of people with « grey hair » and to people trying to change their bathtub into a shower. For that purpose a speech has been learned by all the salesman. It works well. However many salesmen are not convinced by the product so they can’t really sell it.
Several products like the « elderly tap » are only presented in the tap shelf where they are lost in the middle of all the others ones. If a salesman don’t advise,  people almost don’t know what is the purpose or the advantage of that specific products, specially because this is the kind of need which is usually barely expressed
 
3.5.6.3 Conclusion : how to sell products for elderly ?


Customers and salesmen don’t know what an elderly person need in a bathroom except a shower and handles. That’s the reason why:
-       It’s essential to present products for “elderly or for all” in the showroom as a global concept, otherwise few people will pay attention to it. For example, if a toilet with adjustable height is presented in the middle of all the others toilet, almost nobody will look at it. If it’s in a middle of a bigger concept, they might understand that it is actually comfortable and answer to a need they were almost not aware to have. 
-       Train salesman to elderly issues so they can give good advices and almost become experts
-       Aesthetics is  essential because clients are only looking at that first
-       Let the clients try : it’s the only way they will actually feel that a product is comfortable and can answer to a little or to a  big disability they have.
 
 
 
   1. Derived Design requirements
The interviews and background research described above helped us understand the actual role the bathroom plays in our everyday life and how this changes while aging. From those learnings we derived some requirements that a product for the bathroom would have to satisfy. They can be divided into functional requirements that address a specific problem and non-functional requirements that address the subjective perception.
   1. Functional Requirements
As explained before, the design has to meet the requirements of two different user groups. On the one side we have the elderly that might suffer from physical impediments. The bathroom and any furniture insight it have to provide functionality to overcome those limitations.
   1. Safety
The bathroom poses lots of health hazards, especially due to the risk of slipping. This mainly results from the moisture of the shower, the use of blank tiles and walking on them barefoot. We learned that this poses great threads to elderly people as their sense of balance might be impaired and a fall often causes severe injuries. The materials and pieces of furniture used in the bathroom should therefore aim at preventing this by 
   * using anti-slippery tiles
   * offering handlebars to hold on to
   * providing opportunities to get seated
   * …
In case a person gets injured nonetheless, there should be a way to call for help. The opportunity to do so does not only add an factual surplus of safety, but also provides reassurance for people using the bathroom. This matter, however, poses the psychological problem that many elderly people have difficulties asking for help (see above). Furthermore systems to call for help have to be reachable from anywhere and in any situation on the one hand, but unobtrusive in terms of privacy on the other.
   1. Accessibility and Universal Design
Accessibility and the concept of universal design are collections of ideas that require that a product or an environment is open and usable by as many groups of people as possible. This usually broadens the usergroup to elderly or people with physical disabilities. Most of the time only minor changes are necessary to enable a whole new usergroup such as using ramps instead of stairs or using pictograms instead of text. In the context of a bathroom the requirements include the removal of physical obstacles such as ledges or narrow constructions.
   1. Adaptability
The transition from one usergroup to another usually is a slow process. Habits of younger people might be not applicable anymore once certain movements become difficult. If such changes could be foreseen, the furniture could be adaptable to meet those needs. The bathroom should not only be usable by a wide range of user groups but also in different modes. To overcome physical weaknesses for example, bathroom furniture (showers, sinks, mirrors...) should also allow use while seated. Adaptability does not necessarily have to be considered for a wide range of time but also for several generations of people sharing a bathroom. This is usually referred to as multi-generational design.
   1. Practicality
As explained before, the key challenge of this project is to prolong the autonomy of elderly people in their homes. We learned however, that many everyday tasks cannot be solved alone or in an appropriate amount of time with the solutions at hand. Help from thirds is often required building a dependency. New solutions therefore should focus on the autonomous use by elderly people. This does not only count for the actual use of the product, but also for any secondary actions such as cleaning or storing.


   1. Non-Functional Requirements
The second user group we have to design for, is younger people. As they represent the actual clientele of Lapeyre, their needs have to be met as well. Because they usually do not yet have any physical impairments, though, the non-functional requirements shift into focus.
   1. Aesthetics
The strongest non-functional design requirement is aesthetics. When not looking for a specific function, customers tend to only perceive products or environments visually. Therefore, they would have to be well designed and aesthetically pleasing. Moreover, we learned that people do not want to be reminded about their aging. Therefore, a product that conveys its functional purpose would most likely be disapproved. Thus functionality for the elderly must not be prominently conveyed in the products design.
   1. Comfortability
The bathroom is a place that is often not primarily used functionally (e.g. to clean) but rather to relax or to freshen up. Also through our interviews we learned that it is a place of utmost privacy, thus requiring the user to feel comfortable and secure. The furniture should support this comfort by avoiding alien elements and providing reassurance (e.g. visible security features).
   1. Simplicity
The bathroom is an environment that is used on an everyday basis. Thus its furniture should not challenge the user mentally. Rather any product should be discoverable and usable without prior instructions.


   1. Organizational Issues of Renovating the Bathro[i]om
When comes the question of renovating the bathroom , several aspects and factors comes into the play, different organizational issues are needed to be considered.Sometimes the expectations , desires of the people differs from the age group. Generally the older people focus on functionality where the young generations prefers the aesthetics.

Fig : Aspects that are considered while renovating the bathroom
        


As we can strongly argue that floor tiles are often slippery and there exists the danger of falling down not only that doors must be wide enough for the wheelchairs lets say 80-90 cm.There always exists the special focus on the transfer (getting onto the toilet seat, in/out of the shower.)Despite of all, it is much more essential that handles must carry the whole weight. In addition, elderly people have trouble to see any kinds of symbol. Regardless of all, there is also the issue of adjustable mirror. Last but not the least, the consideration of any kind of movement e.g. turning around flush the toilet is much more vital.


   1. Elderly Home vs. Home Care vs. Alternative Living Concept
This part will give the quick overview and distinguishing features with elaboration of elderly home , home care and alternative living concept where the essential advantages and disadvantages on their own will be mentioned. If we simply borrow the meaning of these different terms from the wikipedia we can find that;
The broad term Elderly Home which is commonly known under several terms. Sometime Elderly care , eldercare, aged care are the terms used interchangeably to describe Elderly home. The major focus is for the fullfillment of the special needs and requirements that are unique to the senior citizens. It encompasses the services for the ;

fig : Services encompassed by Elderly Home
Because of the wide variety of elderly care found globally, as well as differentiating cultural perspectives on elderly citizens, cannot to be limited to any one practice. For example, many countries in Asia use government-established elderly care quite infrequently, preferring the traditional methods of being cared for by younger generations of family members.
Elderly care emphasizes the social and personal requirements of senior citizens who need some assistance with daily activities and health care, but who desire to age with dignity. It is an important distinction, in that the design of housing, services, activities, employee training and such should be truly customer-centered. It is also noteworthy that a large amount of global elderly care falls under the unpaid market sector. 
On the other hand, home care also sometimes referred as domiciliary care and social care  and most of the time interchangeably termed as in-home care. The main difference here is that the service or care is provided in supportive manner in the home by licensed healthcare professionals. Professional caregivers provide the daily care to help to ensure the activities of daily living.
In home medical care is often and more accurately referred to as home health care or formal care. Often, the term home health care is used to distinguish it from non-medical care, custodial care, or private-duty care which is care that is provided by persons who are not nurses, doctors, or other licensed medical personnel.


So far whenever we turn the background pages of Alternative Home, we can find that in the coming decades there will be massive changes in the age and social structure to which the current offer is not optimally aligned to the living room. The number of older people will increase significantly . The problem of the compatibility of family and work places new demands on the living environment in the wake of rising female employment . New residential construction is made so before different challenge. In recent years, a variety of alternative housing projects has been especially across generations or initiated and tested for the elderly. In the following, a brief overview of existing concepts will be given , with a focus on structural engineering solutions.
According to calculations by the Board of Trustees German elderly will the need for care places compared to today's inventory in 2020 to 50% increase by 2050 by 100%. Not considered here is the huge demand for " vorpflegerischen " assistance , which allow older people , despite incipient restrictions to remain in their own homes . So many seniors need assistance with shopping, at the doctor and administrative paperwork or household activities . The support and care by family members is due to changing family structures more difficult in the future. Due to increasing childlessness , increasing labor force participation of women and increasing mobility demands on professionals and their families are less likely in the future old people have family members in the immediate spatial environment , which can give them assistance.


























   1. Benchmarking


In a first part, we will explain which are the different market players in France on bathroom for elderly and explain their strategy. As seen before, the buying experience is key in the way solutions can be sold to senior, that’s why it’s interesting to focus on that subject. 
In a second part, we will present existing solutions which answers to need presented in the previous part but don’t especially respect our design requirements. The purpose  of that part is to present two types of products : 
- well-known products which are on the market and exposed interesting and unknown feedbacks we got on them from users and elderly experts. In that case, we don’t especially present the product of one brand but explain globally what are the advantages and disadvantages of it and sometimes opportunities to improve it. 
- present solutions less known but which answer to need and requirements identified. Some of them can be very interesting products to try. For those solutions, we don’t have feedback but only the company description of the product. 




   1. How products for elderlies are sold in France ? 
   1.  Companies on the market
We didn’t conducted a very detailed  market research on companies selling bathroom products for elderly. However we were able to identify globally what kind of companies are on the market. We can divide those in four categories:
   * Medical equipment retailer: they sell products to adapt quickly a bathroom with medical devices. Their clients are elderly who start to have big disabilities.
   * Important bathroom retailer for everyone (Castorama, Leroy Merlin). They sell few solutions for elderly yet: they are focused on traditional products to adapt a bathroom : handles, shower seat, replacement of a bathtub into a shower.
   * High standard companies who have created special ranges of products for elderly. Those kind of products are often expensive.
   * Companies which sell solutions to change your bathtub into a shower and they almost only send that service




We can represents those four categories in that diagram depending the price of their products and the level of disability of their clients. In fact, borders might be less straight that the one presented but that diagram can give a good global picture of the current situation.







   1. How those companies advertise their solutions?
   1. Medical equipment retailer
They don’t advertise their solution. People going there need special devices totally adapted to their disabilities. They go to that kind of retailer (it can also be a pharmacy) because they want good advices. Sales man are experts on that subject, they work very close with doctors, ergotherapist and visiting nurse. They sell functional equipment and usually don’t put any emphasis on aesthetics.
In that kind of shop, emphasis will be put on adapted and safe products. 
Coming to that type of store can be difficult for elderly. “Some people hesitate several time before entering. But when they finally chose a product, it helps them a lot and they come back”, owner of EFM, medical devices retailer. In fact, as we said before psychology is essential for elderly and coming to a place where they sell medical devices need to be accepted. 



   1. Companies which offer solutions to change quickly a bathtub into a shower
Those kinds of companies are more and more numerous. They do plenty of advertisement in all kind of media: TV, newspaper, billboard, markets, email, letters.
All the companies in that area almost all have the same way to sell their products. They have a service available 24h, where a person can call for some advices. They will go to his place, do a free quotation and then make the installation quickly.  Their activity is very focused so they have a kind of expertise on that subject. However they are not in medical activity and sometimes their products are not especially adapted. They are small companies which usually have no store but only sell with pictures.
Those kinds of companies advertise fall prevention, security and sometimes comfort. They don’t hide that their products are for elderly. It can be perceived as kind of stigmatisation. 
In the appendix, there are several brochures of those kind of companies. 

   1. Big and famous bathroom retailer
They currently have a poor offer for elderly. They don’t really emphasize what they sell. Those kinds of products are in the middle of all the others ones.
Salemen are not expert on the elderly subject. Depending the sensibility of the sale man they might give good advice or not.
“Often elderly come to our store and ask for advices to change an equipment they bought at Castorama but which wasn’t appropriated because they didn’t received goo advice”, owner of EFM Store, retailer of medical devices.
A big advantage of those retailers : they sale all kind of product so people don’t feel old while entering into that kind of store (at the opposite of going to a medical device retailer).
   1. High standard companies which developed special ranges for elderly 


Those companies develop specific products for elderly, which are asthetics. Each company has its own philosophy on that subject. But usually, they emphasize a design for all and comfort. The advertisement is done on the link between aesthetic, handy and security. But security isn’t the first word. Those companies provide high standard bathroom so their advertisement is less known.They have global concept really inspiring. 
Here are some headlines on the way they describe their products : 
   * IDHRA Vichy :  “the ergonomic, aesthetic and handy bathroom”
   * Roca gamme Access “La collection Access, conçue pour les personnes à mobilité réduite, épouse des lignes douces et fluides. Qualité,fonctionnalité et design au service du bien-être et du confort de toutes les nécessités.”
   * Easa : “fonctionnalité et design pour tous”
   * “ Notre mission est de nous assurer que nos produits conviennent aux personnes de tout âge, quels que soient leurs capacités, degrés de mobilité et en toute circonstance. Nous concevons nos produits de manière à ce que ceux-ci puissent s’adapter à vos besoins qui évoluent tout au long de votre vie.“
   * Hewi : “solutions système pour des générations”
   * Keuco : “CARE facilite l'utilisation de la salle de bains où le confort et la sécurité sont particulièrement importants.”
Here are some examples of pictures that can be found on their websites and their catalogue. 

Hewi













Keuco


                                




                Easa


   1. Interesting solutions
This part will explain the different interesting solutions that exist on the market. First we will see solutions which meet the needs of general problems in the bathroom, then we will analyse the interesting existing solutions for the activities in the bathroom in the global wash, face preparation, toilet and the other activities.
   1. Floor
Slippery floor is the first problem mentioned by people in the bathroom. One of the solution is to use small tiles with more seals in order to increase adherence. 


There is a classification of tiles depending of their slippery characteristics. The most non slippery tiles are the R13 ones. However, the more non slippery the floor is, the more difficult it is to wash.


   1. Security system
As explained before, fall is an important hazard in the bathroom and staying on the floor can conduct to several bad health consequences. The sooner the person can ask for help (if she is still conscious), the better. Currently several system exists. We can distinguish active and passive alarm. 
Usually active one are simpler to install and require less complex connectivity. However, several issues appear when it’s an active alarm : 
- Some people forget that the alarm exist and don’t use it after a fall
- It doesn’t work if the person if unconscious
- Some elderly are afraid about the consequence of the call : go to the hospital so they prefer not to call. 
Passive alarm avoid all those consequences, however few solutions exists and they are often quite expensive. 
Alarm with a hand trigger 

Advantage : Not too difficult to install, discreet
Disadvantage : If the person doesn't fall under the trigger it’s useless. And usually a person don’t chose where she fall. It’s an active alarm.
Alarm bracelet

Advantage : No hard installation. No change into the bathroom. Waterproof
Disadvantage : As presented in the insights about security, many elderly, even if their alarm is waterproof, they don’t take it while having a shower because they don’t trust the system. Active alarm. 
Opportunity : Find a product to store it within reach while elderly are into the shower.


Telemonitoring : 

Advantage : Passive alarm: sure to be called in case of fall
Disadvantage : require more installation. Expensive. Adoption barrier because of film in the bathroom. 
Opportunity : deviate simpler object for that purpose. 
That device used for watching children can be hacked in a way to watch fall into the bathroom. Finding a way to settle the camera in a good place into the bathroom can be an idea to keep in mind.

Smart baby monitor Withings : 250 euros 
Phone
As seen before, some elderly keep their phone into the bathroom in case they fall. But more generally, younger one also keep their phone into the bathroom to avoid running if they have a call. Thus, a device that can support the phone into the bathroom is a need. After we can imagine a voice recognition for emergency call if it’s a smartphone. Here are some example of support for phones in the bathroom. They are usually sold for music purposes but we can imagine adapting them for the needs presented. 


Bossini is a shower head equipped with two monitors. The phone is plugged in a water proof box fixed on the wall. 












   1. Handle


The handles are the first things people instal in their bathroom when there is a difficulty to stand up, or to help with balance and steadiness. We can find a lot of different kinds of handles more or less interesting and well conceived.
Handle with sucker :


Advantages: Very flexible solution, possible to give several shape when using more than one. Installation very easy and no mark on the wall. Cheap : around 15€. 
Disadvantages: The sucker is not strong enough, and in the case it is strong enough, it is not at all reassuring. The look of these handles is very clinical.
The material used for the handle can change a lot the image conveyed. A handle in inox will be often a lot nicer, sometimes to the detriment of ergonomy. 















Hidden handles:
The most interesting situation is when the handle is hidden in the design of another device such as a sink, toilet roll holder, a towel holder, a soap container… These examples will be given in the next parts.


After this benchmark on general need in the bathroom, in particular the floor, security system and the handles, in the following parts, the interesting benchmark for each of the activities will be exposed.


   1. Global wash
In the global wash, we will mostly have benchmarking about the shower , the bathtub, the different seat solutions for each of them.
   1. Shower
   1. Italian shower


The italian shower was almost described as the best solution concerning accessibility. However it is from far not the easiest to install. 
Advantages: the best for accessibility, with a wheel chair, bath chair, it is perfect. The italian shower is also very trendy now, thus it is not categorized in elderly products. 
Disadvantages: the installation requires work on the ground in particular to insert the U-bend on the level of the floor. Moreover they can be slippery issues in the area just between the tiles of the bathroom floor and the floor of the shower. 
The U-dend is often 8cm height, some extra flat are only 6 cm. It needs to be fitted into the ground to stay under the level of the floor.
 


However other possibilities is to add an aspiration pump to facilitate the evacuation of water. There are 2 possibilities: aspiration by the bottom or by the top. 
Kinematic sells this aspiration system for 800 €. It allows the user to have a height of 5,3 cm. It is possible to have the pump on the tray to gain place in the bathroom, but it is also possible to put it next to the tray to have more place for the feet.
These systems needs a fitting of 35 mm in the floor as shown in the following picture.





Another solution is the aspiration by the top. Vichy offers this kind of solutions for 850€. If the user installs an extra flat tray of 4 cm and this pump, without any fitting, the height of the shower tray can be 4 cm. It is the best height without fitting the tray or U bend in the floor that we have found.


Opportunity: The access part of the shower is a dangerous part, it causes lots of falls. It may be interesting either to use a softer material which mould the feet in case of shock. This other material could be used only for the front part.



In this bathroom, the user put everytime a towel to make the transition softer.
An other solution could be to use color indicator to signalize this dangerous area.






   1. Tools to wash yourself
There is a lots of more or less useful tools to help the user to wash himself. One of the problems is that people can buy these tools but don’t really know how to use them or just don’t manage to include them in their washing habits.
This tool helps people to wash their feet. 













                           The back is a difficult part to wash. A lot of tools exist to help the user to reach this part.  


































   1. Stool/bench/ …


For people having weak muscles, it can be really tiring to stay stand up into a shower. For that purpose several solutions exists. 
Shower chair



Advantages : stable and comfortable sitting place. Nurse like it because it’s safe and adapted to all kind of people even the one who are slightly fat. Temporary solution : no effect on the value of the bathroom
Disadvantage : Handicap connotation. Takes a lot of space into the shower : might not fit in a small shower and need to remove it if someone else takes a shower and don’t need it. 
Price : 60 euros for the most basic one. More than 100 euros if wheels or others elements. 
Folding seat 
Folding seats are the most common support used to be seated into a shower. There exist many types of folding seat. The more common one is a basic white one, but it’s possible to find fancier ones. 
Advantages : Don’t take a lot of space. It can be installed in a small shower and can be fold up when someone don’t use it. It’s very discreet and fancy don’t vector handicap. 
Disadvantages : Elderly who are afraid of falling might be frighten by those devices. “When you have no balance, it’s worst to have those kind of products”, Mme Manapany. Especially when the surface of it is slippery and there isn’t a third leg, it can be unsafe. Finally it doesn’t fit with fat people and elderly are often slightly fatter. It makes hole in the wall.
         
Lapeyre folding seat : 119 euros    Leda folding seat : 319 euros      Idhra Vichy : 535 euros
On those three examples, we can see different types of folding seat for their stability and aesthetics.


Benches 
There are few solutions on the market with benches. It’s a pity because it’s a good way to dissimulate a seat in an aesthetic style. Some people create their own bench : it can be personalised, fancy and really practical for sitting.
As an example, this picture is the own taken in the bathroom of a 75 yo woman. 


   1. Bathtub
Many kinds of accessible bathtubs concepts have been developed, but there are advantages and disadvantages to all of them.
   1. Bathtub with a Door

Advantages: people can easily step into the bathtub, close the door behind them, lie down and then have the water run in.
Disadvantages: the problem with this concept is that the user has to wait for the water to be run in while sitting inside the tub. Even more questionable is having to wait for the water to be run out before you can step out of the bathtub again. Especially elderly people might catch a cold, being still wet from the bath.




   1. To sit in a bathtub
   1. Bathtub chair





















Price: from 150€ (this is the price of the two first chairs on the picture here-above) but it can be much more expensive (for instance the bath lift)
Advantages: It facilitates the transport into the bathtub. It is possible to incorporate a lift on the chair so that the user can be covered with water. The material is often non slippery but it should let the user slide to go at the back of his chair. It is pretty steady. 
Disadvantages: In a lot of these chairs, the user is above the water. These equipment have an clinical look. It is harder to wash all the part of the body while sitting. 
   1. Bathtub bench

Price: 35€
Advantages: The price is low, so it is very accessible by everyone. It is adaptable on any kind of bathtub. It is very easy to install.
Disadvantages: There is no back so it is not very comfortable and steady. It looks like medical equipment. 




















   1. Bath Lift

Operating mode:In the picture above, you can see such a home bath lift. The user sits down on the seat with their legs still outside of the bathtub and then turns 90 degrees to put the legs inside. Some lifts even have got a turnable plate on the seat. After the user positioned himself, he can push the button for being lifted down into the water.
Advantages: For making a normal bathtub better accessible, one can install a bath lift. Many retirement homes use such lifts for giving their patients a therapeutic bath. But there are also bath lifts available which can be installed at home and are operated by the elderly person themselves. This concept allows the user to take a bath without having to climb into the bathroom. The necessary safety is provided throughout the whole usage.
Disadvantages: the only but very big disadvantage of this concept is the clinical look of the device itself.


   1. Change your bathtub into a shower
Today, a lot of people want to change their bathtub into a shower as quickly as possible. Thus, several companies offer solutions to do this installation in one day or less. Here is a description of the main and most interesting actors on the market. There are a lot of other companies than these ones who propose the same kind of offers but don’t raise the same interest. 
   1. Ideal Change by Ideal Standard: installation possible by everyone
Price: from 2 000€ without installation
Advantages:
   * The user himself can install it. It does not require any professional installer.
   * The installation can be done in one day, and is very easy to follow thanks to an explanatory video on their website.
   * Colourful shower.
   * It costs from around 2 000 € without the installation.
   * Leroy Merlin already distributes these products.
 
Disadvantages:       
   * Without doing any installation work, the height of the shower is 14 cm.
























      1. Kinemagic by Kinedo: a various range


Price: from 2 000€ to 4000€ without installation


Advantages:
      * Three different ranges with a difference in price, tools, design.
      * Relatively nice designed.
      * Diversity of sizes.
      * Possibility to add equipment such as an aspiration pump, handles, shower curtain…
      * With a an aspiration pump, it is possible to have a very flat shower: only 5,3 cm.




Disadvantages:
      * It is actually pretty expensive. The first model is just the shower without the tap, so for a tap added, it is from 3 000€.
      * The normal solution is from 14 to 19 cm height.




















         1. Easy Shower: the best
Price: from 4 000 € without installation


Advantages:
         * Great personalization of the product:
         * They offer all the color possibilities, even with a bicolor shower.
         * Custom manufacture
         * Different ranges depending of the needs
         * Possibility of adding tools: soap dispenser, body dryer, lightenings…
         * Installation in 6 hours
         * Life warranty


Inconvenient
         * The price
         * The seat is not that steady and comfortable


Way to advertise it
This company has a very interesting concept to advertise its products. They have a movable showroom in a truck in which they installed a shower with the different sold, a bathroom and a sink. One team is responsible of this truck and goes to different places to advertise this product such as the market. It seems to be a very powerful tool of advertising. 





















         1. Facilot 
Advantages: The strength of the Facilot is its impressively low price, installation included. Also the height of the shower tray, 8 cm,  is one of the best on the market of solution bathtub into a shower in one day.
Recommendations: 
         * Colors are very important in a shower to avoid the classical clinical look. The use of 2 colors can break the one big block aspect of such a shower.
         * The seat is not steady and large enough. Its look is also very clinical. The edge could also be used as the sit 
         * Glass door is very small. While sitting, feet are almost outside : risk of putting plenty of water outside the shower. A bigger glass or using the edge as a seat can avoid that issue
         * Put a handle as a support to enter into the shower. We can imagine an inox handle on the glass and which can be used also as a towel holder.
         * Several clients and salesmen were not confident with the sturdiness of the product. Maybe a note with an explanation of the material used for the product (in stores) can be important. 
An insight on the experience of facilot from a woman who is 83 is available in the appendix. 








         1. Face preparation
Access to washbasin can be difficult with a wheel chair or a zimmer frame as well as the access to the tap. 
         1. Wash basin 


That washbasin combines handles and towel holders. This is a perfect example of design for all product. It answers to an elderly need without emphasizing on that issue. 

Hewi washbasin 510 euros
The height of the washbasin needs to be adapted to the person (tall, short). For that it’s possible to settle a right height at the beginning when it’s installed but it can not be appropriated to all the person coming to that bathroom. Thus, some companies developed adjustable height washbasin. 
                  
Astor Bannerman                                Kingkraft adjustable washbasin


         1. Tap 













                        Ametis Faucet                                Optima Lumino


There can be some different interesting way to show the temperature. These 2 devices use LED temperature indicator. The jet of water is triggered by IR detection in the Optima Lumino model with a preset of water temperature. It is possible to find IR detection tap from 40€.
A switchblade can either limit the debit of water to limit the consumption of water when the user needs only a small debit, or to limit the temperature to prevent from burning.






         1. Dispenser

Toothpaste dispenser : 
The user just need to put his toothpaste in the device. When he presents his toothbrush, a dose of toothpaste is given, either by pressing softly the device or even by IR detection. It can be very useful when there is gripping difficulties.





Soap dispenser:
The soap dispenser could be use in the washing place or also in front of the sink. The way to have soap, push or pull a button, and the way it can be refilled have to be as easy as possible.
Once all Touch Soap Dispenser: 19€. 






         1. Mirror
As seen before, sight can be a big problem for elderly.  Here are some interesting solutions well known or less known. 
Adjustable mirror can be very convenient to help a person to see herself (either an elderly or a child). An interesting point is that they could be used while sitting or while standing up. 
     
Miroir inclinable - Idhra Vichy                                Miroir inclinable - Hewi
         1. Toilet
         1. Toilet Seat Booster


Several solutions exist to answer to the problem of toilet height. Indeed, when toilet are not high enough elderly can’t get up from it. 
They can be sold usually in pharmacy or in a medical devices retailer. They are really simple and you can find them with handles or without. 
Advantages : A quick and cheap solution to quickly adapt your toilet. Can be removed easily if someone is coming or when you sell an apartment. Some person might also need to use their wheelchair to go on the toilet. In that case, removable seat booster is an easy solution to change the height of your toilet depending if you are going that day with a wheelchair or not. 
Disadvantages : Handicap connotation and not aesthetic. Many people don’t want to install that for preserving the aesthetic of their toilet and not have a handicap installation. 

The price can change but it’s usually between 50 and 100 euros. 


         1. Adjustable toilet
New systems allow the user to choose the height he wants for the toilet. In a same house, several people use the same bathroom but these people don’t have the same need. Thus this solution offers the possibility to each of the user to set his own height. 














         1. Japanese toilet


Japan market throw toilet suitable for the elderly in 2004, with a height adjusted according to each person, where seating comes up and down just with a bottom.
Creation of this  electrically raised toilet seat for the elderly. It has a control in the right armrest, where the small handle at the end is pulled up or pushed down.
This product made was made by Toto company, also many others companies produced like Inax, NAIS, y Panasonic.





Advantage: Depending on the type of problem, the disabled may have difficulty wipe themselves after using the toilet. Hence the introduction of toilets with jet cleaner and dryer that saves them the trouble to ask someone to help them in a process that can be considered inherently private . This device can be installed on a toilet and does not need the modification of the existing toilet. 
Disadvantage: it is like a robot which can be perturbing and afraid people to sit on such a complicated device.


         1. Toilet paper holder 
Toilet paper holder can be go a good solution to hide handles. That example is one intersting to keep in mind. With more research we probably can find others one.















         1. Intelligent toilet
         1. Satis
Currently one of the innovative companies specialized in this type of products is Inax. 
Principle:they may be operated from an Android phone connected by Bluetooth to the toilet. It let you open and close the lid remotely, moderate water jet function , change the style and volume of the music of the built-in speakers . 






Price: around 2 000 €


         1. Daiwa  House

















         *          *          *          *          *          *          *          *          *          *          *          *          *          *          * This device proposes waterjet to replace the toilet paper. But in addition to the general functions of a toilet, it provides measure your blood pressure and also it tells you the blood sugar level.
Price: around 3000-4000 €
         *          1. Toilet support bar 


A support is essential for getting up of a toilet, especially when it’s too low. It’s possible to set up classic handles but we can also find others types. 


             
Advantage : A cheap solution and quite easy to install. Some of them, in inox can be quite aesthetic. Possibility to imagine others uses of that like a towel holder (but no solution identified so far).
Disadvantage : Always an handicap connotation. Makes hole in the wall. Need to be removed if you sell the place. 
A basic white toilet support bar is cheap (around 50 euros). A more elegant like the one in steel is much more expensive (250 euros). 
























         1. Prototypes, Evaluation & Design Vision
         1. Brainstorming and Ideation
In this subchapter we will describe ideas, that we didn’t pursue further, but which are still worth remembering.
         1. Drying

Because of the weaker musculature of the elderly, they often freeze a lot earlier. That’s why, it can be of great importance for them to dry quickly after taking a shower.
Our idea was to install fans directly into the shower. This way, the user would only have to push a button after washing himself and he would be dried off automatically.
         1. Security in the bathroom
Many elderly people are afraid of slipping in the bathroom and not being able to call for help.
One idea, that tackles this problem is to develop a necklace with a help button directly included. This way, they wouldn’t need to find a telephone or any other emergency device, but can press a button they always have with them. The necklace might even include a GPS sensor, so that the ambulance can find you without even having to talk to you.
Another approach would be to directly prevent people from slipping.
That could be accomplished with tiles that change color according to their condition. They could for example get red when they are wet and green when slipping is not possible. This way, the user could just step around the red/wet parts of his floor and would so be prevented from slipping.
Because flecked tiles might not be conceived as pretty, another idea was to just show a warning in the mirror if some tiles are wet. This warning could be displayed e.g. as a red glow around the mirror. This way, the user would know, that he needs to be careful, walking around his bathroom.
         1. getting into the bathtub
a bath tub which is built into the floor. You can step on an elevator, which elevates you into the tub. (drawing!)
         1. washing and reaching all body parts
a telescope shower head, which has got a brush/sponge and a soap dispenser included.



         1. CEP
         1. Old suits
To experience the different impairments of elderly people there exist several solutions on the market. Basically those solutions are specialized suits simulating reduced suppleness, balance, muscle strength and sensitive capcities. Most of them are used in the apprenticeship of nurses, physiotherapists, doctors, etc. They are often not available very easily on the market and have to be rented for several hundred Euros per day often including . An example can be seen in the following picture. While those solutions might be very advanced, developed and designed by universities and health care experts, the price seemed too high for us. Therefore we came up with the idea to copy some of the ideas of the found geriatric suits and to build our own one. This gives us the great advantage of reflecting our gathered knowledge about old people’s problems and to have easily access to such a simulation during our project.


         1. Our prototype
To reduce the suppleness of the joints of elbow, wrist and knee we use regular protectors from Inline skating in an extra small clothing size. With that we get the effect that every movement of those important joints gets considerably hard to perform.

To simulate reduced muscle strength  and fast starting exhaustion we use joint weights intentionally made for intensifying the training while jogging. Each of the 4 weights around both wrists and ankles weighs 1.25 kg and fatigues the test persons very fast as we know from own testings. Accordingly to our interviews this fast exhaustion seem to be very authentic.

For simulating impaired sensitive capabilities, especially in the hands and fingertips, we let the user of our prototype wear hygienic gloves which has an obvious effect.


Because a scotoma and other diseases concerning the field of view are quite hard to simulate, we simply let the users wear very strong glasses actually correcting farsightedness which has the opposite effect to people with well eyes. 



         1. Prototype 
         1. French
         1. Which need does it answer?
                   
As explained before, elderly with stiffness and balance issues have a lot of difficulty to to access to head shower, soap and all kind of tools that they can be used in the shower (rasor, brush, gloves…). What’s more it can be tiring to keep in hand shower head and especially difficult to wash oneself with it in hand. Finally, when people have a seat in their shower, the position of head shower can be difficult to settle if it needs to work for people seated or not. The aim of our prototype was to answer to those issues




         1.  Description


Our prototype is a  shower column wall made with a large piece of metal on which it’s possible to fix anywhere a shower head and several magnetic elements for supporting personal cares. The use of magnetic elements allow an important flexibility : each person can adjust the height of the head shower and the elements depending their height or the fact they are seated.
Several magnetic elements are fixed on the wall : a support for soap, a soap and shampoo dispenser, a toothbrush holder, a hook.
 
 
We also imagined others types on devices to add on the wall : 
- a clock (to answer to a need identified : know the time while having a shower)
- digital display to know water temperature
- easy button to adjust water temperature level
The head shower has a magnet on its bottom part to allow direction adjustments. However, for stability purpose we also tried to put some magnets at the top of the shower head.
4.3.1.3. Construction of the prototype
We first did a very quick prototype with a piece of wood and magnets to quickly see if our idea was relevant. The result was interesting so we decide to build a better one. 
For that we bought a magnetic shower head in a Lapeyre store. In fact, they currently have a magnetic shower head but it is fixed on a small piece of metal. Then with recycling materials and magnet we added the other elements on the wall.










         1. Test
We presented the prototype to several persons. All the reactions were extremely positive. 
“It’s great, I miss not being able to use liquid soap anymore, that will help me a lot to have it within reach », Angèle 81 years old
“You have a buyer”, Roger 81 years old
“It’s a great idea : it really answers to issues of elderly. I would like to have the same at home. It’s exactly the kind of product perfect to avoid any stigmatization of elderly”, Mariana, occupational therapist at Fondation Favier
“It’s great, we never know where to put the shower head”, team of 14 visiting nurse aid. 
Benjamin also installed the device in his parents bathroom. We was able to see that each day new devices were added to the wall, that proves that it was used. One reaction of his mother : 
“It’s great to have the soap within reach! », Claudine, 57 years old



         1. Learnings
We understood that we can find interesting product  that really answer to issues of elderly but are also totally comfortable for younger ones. 
Only adaptation of existing products can make a big difference. This isn’t a total new solution because it is adapted from a magnetic head shower of Lapeyre. However, the simple fact to have a bigger piece of metal in the back makes it more convenient to use and it ‘s a way of reinventing large and design shower column into useful one.
Magnet is a very powerful and useful solution to order things. We can think about use of magnet in others parts in the bathroom (around the sink for example). 


         1. Possible improvements
Because of the positive reactions on that product, it seem interesting to go further in his development. First of all, we should work more precisely on : 
- benchmark solutions for a digital display to show water temperature and to change water temperature
- Benchmark useful and handy soap dispenser that we can add to our wall 
- Study the position of magnet on the head shower to make it easy to fix but still adjustable


We also have several others ideas that we could add to our prototype : 
- Some elderly have organization issues because of cognitive disabilities. Magnet can be use to write the “washing procedure”.
- While washing or rinsing oneself, it ‘s good to have the water close to the part of your body you are washing. However, for elderly, it can be tiring to keep the head shower in hand. The magnet solution is a first answer to that issue but don’t allow  as many movements of the head shower as the one we can imagine. A semi-rigid hosepipe could answer to that need. This is something we would like to test. 
                              








         1. German


         1. Which need does it answer?
One of the many restrictions, elderly people encounter, using the shower is not being able to wash their back and feet properly. The reason for that is their inflexibility and their impaired sense of balance. It’s not easy for them to stand on one foot to clean the other one or even to reach down to their feet.
That’s why, we developed a system which helps the elderly clean their back and feet. To be applicable for younger people as well, a massage function is integrated.
         1. Description

This picture shows the prototype in use. The test person Anita is standing in the shower where the feet washing device is installed. This prototype is obviously not a completely functioning washing and massaging machine, but it is supposed to test the general idea of having something like this installed in the shower.
The main part of the prototype is a rotating brush, which is powered by a drill. The test person holds her foot against it to wash it. The prototype can also be positioned one level higher to wash the back.


         1. Testing and Learnings
We tested this prototype with 13 people, ranging in age from 18 to 39. Most of them really liked the idea and found it already very pleasant to be massaged by the rotating brush. Only one test person said it would be too strange for her, even a little disgusting to have cold and wet cloths slap against her foot.
In general, the feedback was very positive, though. Three test persons even said, they’d want to buy it right away - if it would work properly already. We also got many good ideas, how to improve the prototype from the participants, e.g. installing interchangeable brushes or integrating the brushes directly into the floor, respectively wall.
But there are also still a lot of disadvantages to this idea. It is very hard to keep the brush clean and having to keep one’s balance, standing on one foot is an unnecessary impediment. Also, the brush splashes a lot. But this shouldn’t be a problem any more, as soon as the prototype would be used as it was meant to be used - while showering getting wet anyways.
         1. Ideas for Further Development of this Idea
As we said in the chapter above, we got a lot of great ideas for further development of this idea, while testing the prototype.
Our current vision is to combine a shiatsu massage pad with brushes and put that directly against the wall inside the shower. It would massage and clean the user’s back at the same time.
For the feet, we imagine brushes integrated into the shower’s floor, that move back and forth. This way, the user would only need to stand in their shower and his feet would be cleaned automatically.






         1. Project planning and management 
         1. Deliverables and milestones


Date
	Deliverable
	Description
	October 24
	Team Formation
	Teams were formed in Stanford and all members met each other
	November 7
	Benchmarking
	online research about Lapeyre and competititors was done
	November 14
	Interviews and Stakeholder analysis
	stakeholders were defined and experts were interviewed
	November 21
	Personas
	two personas for the two different user groups were created
	December 5
	CEP/CFP
	created the age simulation suit (CEP) and the two prototypes
	December 12
	German Fall Presentation
	presented the first insights and prototypes, generated from interviews, needfinding and benchmarking in the german d.school
	December 16
	French Fall Presentation
	presented the first insights and prototypes, generated from interviews, needfinding and benchmarking in the french d.school
	December 19
	Fall documentation
	Documented the design process
	







         1. Project budget
         1. France


Period
	Purchase Description
	Purchased From
	Purpose
	Cost
	Budget Remaining
	25-27/11/13
	Nice tickets Kati
	EasyJet
	Nice interview
	 €      182.43
	 €   1.817,57
	25-27/11/14
	Nice tickets Florence
	EasyJet
	Nice interview
	 €      168,48
	 €   1.649,09
	25/11/2013
	Nice taxi Airport
	Nice taxi
	Nice interview
	 €         60,00
	 €   1.589,09
	25/11/2013
	nice to laypere store
	Nice taxi
	Nice interview
	 €         40,00
	 €   1.549,09
	25/11/2013
	paris to airport
	Train RAR
	Nice interview
	 €           4,05
	 €   1.545,04
	27/11/2013
	nice to airport
	Train RAR
	Nice interview
	 €           6,00
	 €   1.539,04
	27/11/2013
	nice to airport
	Train RAR
	Nice interview
	 €           6,00
	 €   1.533,04
	06/12/2013
	Gym Weight +Globes
	

	1st Prototype
	 €         21,85
	 €   5.978,15
	07/12/2013
	Staff Of Bathroom
	

	1st Prototype
	 €         82,25
	 €   5.895,90
	08/12/2013
	Application Itunes
	Itunes
	1st Prototype
	 €         22,48
	 €   5.873,42
	



         1. Germany


Period
	Purchase Description
	Purchased From
	Purpose
	Cost
	Budget Remaining
	Fall
	Team Dinner Cheesecake Factory
	The Cheesecake Factory
	Kick Off in Stanford
	245.73 €
	5254.27 €
	Fall
	Hotel in Paris
	hostelbookers.com
	Kick Off in Paris
	140 €
	5114.27 €
	Fall
	Flights to Paris
	logitravel.de
	Kick Off in Paris
	1150.72 €
	3963.55 €
	Fall
	Public Transport in Paris
	RATP
	Kick Off in Paris
	126.20 €
	3837.35 €
	Fall
	Prototyping Material I
	Norma
	Prototyping
	30 €
	3807.35 €
	Fall
	Prototyping Material II
	toom
	Prototyping
	87.31 €
	3720.04 €
	Fall
	Prototyping Material III
	toom
	Prototyping
	116.90 €
	3603.14 €
	Fall
	Massage cushion
	Amazon
	Prototyping
	39.90 €
	3563.24 €
	Fall
	Prototyping Material IV
	toom
	Prototyping
	11.79€
	3551.45 €
	

         1. Distributed Team Management
At the beginning of the project, the teams agreed on the team managment and on the communication and organisation tools that we wanted to use, as well as the meeting.
We realise while using them the strengths and weaknesses. Thus we did the necessary adjustments to be as efficient and coherent as a team as possible.
The tools and team management are listed below, as well as a justification of their uses.
         1. Weekly meeting ENPC/HPI through conference call
At the beginning, we wanted to do weekly meeting with a videoconference system. However we had several problems. First, we had technical problem with the system which was not working as well as we would have wanted to. We have spent a huge amount of time trying to fix it. Then, we tried to meet the two complete team all together. But it was very hard to find the right schedule especially at this time of ethnographic research and thus of a lot of interview.
         1. Google Drive
         2. Facebook group




         1. Reflections and goal[j]


The ENPC team
Rocío Alejandra Mejía Quijano


The multidisciplinary experience has been very rewarding because I come from a country (GDR)  with very different culture from  the French and German.


This project has been very significant, full of revolutionary ideas of innovation, which allowed me to reinvent the experience of the elders in the bathrooms to improve autonomy and comfort.


Using the information from the interviews we had to analyze it  and classify it to fully understand the needs of our user. We used the Design Thinking metodology which allows us to find information that we did not know before and probably will help us to make a revolutionary ideas and turn around the elderly experience in the bathroom.


I am hoping this next quarter will bring new ideas and will help us to finalize the project to help as many people as we can.




The HPI team
Anita Diekhoff
Lorem ipsum…
Fabian Tschirschnitz
Also I was already quite familiar with the Design Thinking approach, I am very pleased by beeing able to utilize it in such a long running project. The personal highlight for me was the prototyping and testing phase, where I learned that a prototype can be more a communication machine than a solution. It increases the imagination of the people you talk to and brings even the craziest ideas out of their mind.
The work in an international team was new to me and I think we still can learn a lot of things from each other. Surprisingly communication seems to be the hardest challenge for us so far, even it is mostly the fault of the utilized technology. I really enjoy the committed spirit in both teams.




Rakesh Kumar Sah
Gaining unfolding and incredible experience  from working with the project Lapeyre,,i do have gain enough hope , potential and inner drive from the perspective of products innovation and engineering.
Apart from this, my words are still incomplete to describe how much i am motivated from the design thinking methodology which has the profounding strength to boost up my  leadership , personality skills and communicative power .
I would also like to extend my humble thanks for the project Lapeyre which has provided me this golden opportunity to enrich and enhance my social competencies and responsibilities towards the elder people. 
Last but not least, i am very much motivated from the entire structure of the project and look forward for the upcoming magnificient journey of innovation.




Johannes Jasper
The past couple of months were deeply impressive for me. Though the design thinking process was not new to me, I was surprised how many things there were to learn. I was especially surprised about the cultural and sociological differences between France and Germany even though we are neighbouring countries. The opportunity to work with elderly people and tackle problems that really matter in our society was a new and rewarding experience. I found especially interesting that the problem statement was well aware to everybody we interviewed. The fact that there are no suitable solutions, however, surprised me a lot.
It was a pleasure so far to work with such a diverse and committed team and I am looking forward to the time to come. I am hoping to make a contribution to a problem that really matters.
         1. Resources
         2. Bibliography
         3. Appendix
         1. Full Interview Transcripts
         2. Needfinding tools
         1. Stakeholder map
         2. Context map
         1. Fall Brochure






[a]how would the bathroom need to be adapted for a 50 yo? should we raise this age?
[b]do not really know what to write here...
[c]did we go into this? it is basically the opposite of a user-centric design, therefore its unlikely to produce innovative products which meet the needs of the target group.
[d]yeah, we should delete this.
[e]agree, what do you thin, Benjamin, Florence?
[f]I just put the titles here because there are plenty of pictures and it makes that part really heavy. Everything is on a word document.
[g]that is actually described in the kickoff section. So I would like to put the picture there.
[h]yes sure ! We should just check that the datas are the same (it's the one from Nice )
[i]we can put this part in a design requirement practicality
[j]everone write something about his/her reflection...