Interview for the seller 


When you sell an installation , what type of information do you need ? 
Do you have a lot of demand from elderly ? What are they looking for when they come to Lapeyre ? For example your last client, what was he looking for ? 


Questions for Lapeyre Nice store sellers (Kati)
 
1)   Are there many customers buying ”Baignoire FACILO”? How many FACILOS are you selling per day/ per week in Nice?
2)   Who is the average customer that  buys FACILO baignoires?
3)   Why some potential customers of  FACILO decide to buy some other products instead?
4)   Are there some products that customers would like to buy but Lapeyre doesn`t have them in their selection?
5)   Why customers choose to buy their bathrooms from Lapeyre? Because of the price/high quality?
6)   What are ”the best selling bathroom products” in Lapeyre Nice store? Why?
7)   What are ”the worst selling bathroom products” in Lapeyre Nice store? Why?
8)   What are the most popular bathroom materials and colours?
9)   How much an average bathroom customer spends money in Lapeyre Nice store?
10) What are the main differences between average Lapeyre customers in Nice and Paris?




INTERVIEW FOR THE CRAFTSMAN




1. What Dimensions are usually  need  for  the water pipe?
2. Do you prefer a Specific material for the hot water pipe?
3. What are the minimum dimensions of the siphon and Water pipe?
4. What are the steps for the installation?
5. What type of cubits do you usually use?
6. Which inclination do you use normally for the slope of the shower?
7. Do you use a special Fruga for the bathroom?
8. How long its take to build a full bathroom?
9. 



Is there any difficulties to install a “douche à l’italienne” ? 
Can you describe me the last situation when you had to do some installation for an elderly person? What did you have to do ? 


What are the things to know when you install a bathroom ? Evacuation ? Type of home ? Electricity ? 
What are the regulations about bathroom ?