Prototypes

In this project our team is using user-centered design thinking approach. Therefore, focusing on actual user or user groups is playing the main role in design process. We developed two prototypes to find out and evaluate possible needs of the users. The main purpose of these prototypes is to enable a discussion, to find out further requirements and to get feedback as early as possible.
Generating data through user involvement


A more proactive approach on gathering data is the collection directly from the end-users of medicine. The idea to dig deeper into this topic was mainly inspired by our research on the quantified self trend and similar approaches of automatic data collection used by companies like Apple and Google to learn from it and improve on their services. Given it would be possible to gather data that is meaningful and accurate enough to provide results that are sufficient for medical studies this would be a promising way to collect information from a non-controlled environment.
 
But bearing in mind recent public outcries on privacy scandals induced by certain governmental institutions in the United States we identified the acceptance of giving access sensitive medical data as a key element of such an approach. The reason is that it is essential to leave the choice to the user on what happens with his data that is part of his property and that naturally without the allowance to collect data the concept would fail.


Prototype: Über-Bracelet


To investigate on the acceptance and willingness of using data that is collected from users of medicine in an automatic manner we designed a prototype using a fictional product we called Über-Bracelet. The product consists of a bracelet capable of tracking various physical features and comes along with a webservice and mobile phone app to keep track of the data collected. 


In our testing scenario where a person received the bracelet and in a first step set up his user settings for the service on the product website. This meant choosing which of following aspects he wanted to be tracked for him or herself and which of those he wanted to provide anonymously for pharma research and for governmental research respectively: Heart rate, Skin Temperature, Perspiration, Calories, Sleep amount, Sleep quality, Location, Movement and Activity, Music, Blood Oxygen Levels, Medicine intake (When you get drug alarms you confirm them, this data can be tracked) and Food barcodes (You can scan barcode with your bracelet for nutrition tips). 
In a next step users were presented with a short written scenario of what their last week looked like and a feedback message on a mobile mobile phone that the product phone application would present them as a summary on that week based on the data gathered during that time. This way we wanted to see the acceptance of personal feedback on people’s lives and far we could go with the interpretation on this very sensitive information. We prepared questions for the participants, asking how they felt about the feedback given by the application, if it was helpful and useful and if it was too intimidating. 
Results


Even though users were explicitly promised their data would be submitted completely anonymously the willingness to share their data was surprisingly low. That is of course a problem since the accumulation of data was the very purpose of this product in the first place. Still we were able to retrieve an interesting insight that is that users were more willing to share data for pharmaceutical research than for governmental purposes. It also became very apparent through the answers we got from our weekly summary scenarios that using language as a medium for communicating results is probably not the best choice since it is very sensitive to personal interpretation. The reaction to the same presented sentences differed quite a lot in some cases. While for some subjects a sentence was considered as a good advice from a friend, for others it was way to personal, saying “who is this app to judge me”. Depending on the situation participants reported that the feedback was very supportive, mostly when they performed well anyway. But especially in cases of negative feedback users generally prefered raw data to do the interpretation themselves. 


Since we presented the value of this product to the user being some feedback to improve on their lifestyle it would be interesting to go more into an investigation of a medical scenario. If the product was specifically presented to assist people with their treatment for preventive health care or give them feedback on their curation process when taking specific medicine users might be more willing to share their medical information just as they do it when visiting a doctor for the same purpose. 
 
Discovery and Linking of Databases


In the interviews we conducted we repeatedly were told that it is quite difficult for Bayer employees to get a good overview about data sources available inside and outside the company. This has various disadvantages: First of all it happens that Bayer acquires databases various times and therefore spends more money than necessary. The second problem is that some relevant and valuable data sources remain undiscovered and therefore it may be that Bayer employees are not able to prove desired issues.             


We imagined that it may be useful for Bayer to have a system which assists their employees in finding relevant data sources and corresponding information. Currently Bayer has a system that contains such information: The “capture reference database”. This database was built around the year 2010 with minimal effort from different departments. Bayer employees stated that problems with the system are that it is not user-friendly at all and furthermore not very well known inside the company. We also were told that it was intended that the users of the database should report back new data sources and their own usage of mentioned databases. However, such an update has never taken place since the initial release. Some of the users have updated their “private” copy of the file but never reported back the updates.


Another Issue with the “capture reference database” is that it has not been used as often as expected. An explanation given for this problem is that the database is not well known inside the company. The “capture reference database” is currently existing in the form of an excel file. From our perspective this is not an ideal solution because it leads to issues regarding functions and usability and also to serious versioning issues which have been experienced inside Bayer. Instead of updating a central version they copy the file to their personal storage and then edit only their versions.
To summarize, we see the following issues:
* Bad usability
* Not well known inside the company
* No updates
* Excel is not ideal technical solution for this problem


All potential users we have asked, mentioned that the system could be useful for them, so we think that it is worth looking further into this topic.




Prototype: User interface 


We built a first paper prototype of a potential user interface for a data source search platform. The purpose of this prototype is to evaluate which criteria of a data source are relevant and how a potential user would try to find matching data sources.
Additionally, we hope to get feedback about which additional features would be useful for users. 
Figure1: The data source search entry-point; a google like search mask




In figure 1 you can see the entry point of our prototype. The user has to insert a search string like a symptom, a substance, a disease, a region etc., then the search engine will return matching results. In the next steps the user has to filter the discovered data sources by different criteria. This phase is shown in the figures 2 to 5. 





Figure 2: Table View




In figure 2 you can see the table view which shows the most important information about the data source. In our prototype this is exemplified by “quality”, country and creator. In a more realistic scenario, this view would hold much more different criteria, but we still have to find out which criteria are most relevant for the users.  







Figure 3: The map view




By the map view shown in figure 2, we want to test whether it is useful for users to visualize the geographical origin of a data source. in this image all the data sources selected in the previous step are shown on a map and then the user can deselect the irrelevant ones. This view is useful to quickly sort databases by geographical region. For example, if I only want data from South and Middle America then I can quickly deselect all data sources from the other regions of the world. This task might be done much faster on a map than in a table view. 







Figure 4: A “social graph” for data source




With the social-graph view (compare figure 2) we want to illustrate which databases have been used by which researchers. This might be helpful to identify databases with a high quality or big relevance. To find interesting data sources for research purposes, the user can look for researchers who are working in a similar field. In addition, the user can also identify data sources which this colleague is working with. 



Figure 5: Venn diagram view


A Venn diagram can be used to illustrate sets and their properties. Figure 5 illustrates a diagram for search criteria of blood pressure, blood sugar and blood oxygen In this image you can see that only TestDB 2 has values for all three criteria. TestDB 6 for example has values for blood pressure and blood oxygen but has no data about the blood sugar. 


Results


First we tested the prototype with Guido Radack being the user and the test revealed some interesting sentiments. While the map view seemed to be looked as a gimmick, he thinked the social graph could be really useful. He liked the idea to rely on the knowledge of past, related projects. He thought that the Venn diagram are more of a graphical view of simple column filters. In his opinion, we should try to communicate as much information as possible in a graphic form. He also mentioned the excellent chart displaying Napoleon’s Russia campaign by Charles Minard. This raises the question of whether we have thought enough about a graphical visualization that displays multiple dimensions of information.





He thinks a user interface should be clearly structured like the shown one. It should also not display anything that does not fulfill a function. Another interesting point he raised is that it could be useful to design a GUI for software that our users are already using to lower the initial learning barriers. 
Key Findings 
* Social graph view is very interesting
* We still have to find the most interesting source measurements for the table view    
* Venn diagram and Map view seem to be more gimmick than functional
* Clearly structured and simplified user interface is important


Storyboard Prototype: Update Procedure


A critical function of the data source search system is that it should be updated on a regular basis. The main issue with Bayer’s current system, the “capture reference database” is that it never has been updated.


we thought about two potential options for inserting data into such a system: Centralized or decentralized inserting. In the centralized scenario a single dedicated entity is responsible for keeping the system up to date. However, this entity relies strongly on the information from users of the system. The users must therefore send their findings and updates to the centralized entity which then inserts the data into the system.
Difference in the decentralized scenario is that there the users of the system are responsible for the updates. The system gives them the possibility to directly enter their findings and updates and therefore no central authority is needed. Both possibilities have their advantages and we want to use this prototype to explore how the actual users will react to this. 
Figure 6: Update scenario 1:  “decentralized” procedure


In the first scenario illustrated in figure 6 user having interesting information adds it directly to the system. One advantage of this procedure is, that information can be added quick and cheap. No central authority is needed and this saves costs and communication overhead.


On the other hand, it takes more time for the individual user as he has to aggregate all information needed and familiarize himself with the update procedure being always responsible for the quality of data. In case of other employees having questions concerning the data source they will always address him. This can also be seen as an advantage because it helps Bayer employees connecting across the company.
As we can see, the update takes a lot of the users’ time without giving him a personal advantage. This may lead to the situation currently experienced with the “capture reference database” where users are forgetting to send in their updates. In this scenario the users would have to be either forced by strong regulation or rewarded by giving them incentives for their updates. 











Figure 7: Update scenario 2 “centralized” procedure


In the case of the decentralized scenario the user sends the information he has to a central authority which then adds the data into the system. An advantage of this scenario is that a person who works with the system on a regular basis is much more efficient in using it. Therefore, a central authority might be much faster in adding data into the system.


Additionally, a central authority can ensure the quality of the data inserted into the system which leads to a more efficient system for the users. On the other hand, a central authority causes communication overhead. For example, if some information is missing it can take lots effort to get it from the original producer. Another disadvantage is that qualified and trained personnel is required to develop the central authority department, this leads to additional cost. Last point to mention is that a central authority does not know the data source as well as the user who worked with it and therefore might miss some essential information.


Review


Guido Radack was the test person of our prototype and  provides us the first feedback. We summarized our insights from that in the following points. Nevertheless this prototype has still to be tested on a bigger group of users. 
Key Findings
* Central unit is better for conformity and is preferred even if that takes more time to be developed 
* one using the decentralized system has to get trained how to add information to the repository making this system expensive to be developed