Prototypes testing design assumptions
In this project our team is following the design thinking approach, therefore focusing on the future user is very important. We built some prototypes to find out and evaluate possible needs of the users. The main purpose of these prototypes is to enable a discussion, to find out further requirements and to get feedback as early as possible. (RPR)




Generation of Data
Uber-Bracelet




Discovery and Linkage of Databases




In the interviews we conducted we repeatedly were told that it is quite difficult for Bayer employees to get a good overview about data sources available inside and outside the company. This has various bad consequences: First of all it happens that Bayer acquires databases various times and therefore spends more money than necessary. The second problem is that some relevant and valuable data sources remain undiscovered and therefore it may be that Bayer employees are not able to prove desired issues. (RPR)             




We imagined that it may be useful for Bayer to have a system which assists their employees in finding relevant data sources and corresponding information. Currently Bayer has a system which contains such informations called “capture reference database”. This database was built around the year 2010 with a big effort from different departments. Bayer employees stated, that problems with the system are that it is not very user-friendly and not very well known inside the company. We also were told that it was intended that the users of the database should report back new data sources and their own usage of mentioned databases. However such an update has never taken place since the initial release, some users have updated their “private” copy of the file but never reported back the updates.
Another Issue with the “capture reference database” is that it was not used as often as expected. An explanation given for this problem is that the database is not well known inside the company. The “capture reference database” is currently existing in form of an excel file. From our perspective this is the ideal solution because it leads to issues regarding functions and usability but also leads to serious versioning issues which were also experienced inside of Bayer. Instead of updating a central version they copy the file to their personal storage and then edit only their versions. (RPR)




To summarize, we see the following issues:
- Bad usability
- Not well known inside the company
- No updates
- Excel not ideal technical solution for this problem




All potential users we have asked, mentioned that the system could be useful for them, so we think that it is worth looking further into this topic. (RPR)




Paper Prototype: User interface (German CEP)




We have built a first paper prototype of a potential user interface for a data source search platform. The purpose of this prototype is to evaluate which criteria of a data source are relevant and how a potential user would try to find matching data sources.
Additionally we hope to get feedback which additional features would be useful. (RPR)
Figure X+1: The data source search entry-point; a google like search mask




In figure X+1 you can see the entry point of our prototype. The user has to insert a search string like a symptom, a substance, a disease, a region etc., then the search engine will return a lot of results. In the next steps the user has to filter the discovered data sources by different other criteria. this phase is shown in the figures X+2 to X+5. (RPR)





Fig X+2: Table View




In Figure X+2 you can see the table view, which is shows the most important information about a data source. In our prototype this is exemplified by “quality”, country and creator. In a more realistic scenario this view would hold much more different criteria, but we still have to find out which criteria are most relevant to the users.  (RPR)







Fig X+3: The map view




With the view shown in figure X+2, the so-called map view we want to test whether it is useful for users to visualize the geographical origin of a data source. On this map all the data sources selected in the previous step are shown on a map and then the user can deselect the irrelevant ones. This view might be useful to quickly sort databases by geographical region: if I only want data from south and Middle America then I can quickly deselect all data sources from other regions of the world. This task might be done much faster on a map than in a table view. (RPR)







Fig X+4: A “social graph” for data source




With the social-graph view (compare Fig. X+2) we want to illustrate which databases have been used by which researchers. This might be helpful to identify databases with a high quality or big relevance. To find interesting data sources for his studies a user might look for researchers who are working in a similar field and look at the data sources which this colleague is working with. (RPR)



Fig X+5: Venn diagram view
A Venn diagram can be used to illustrate sets and their properties. In figure X+5 a Venn diagram for the criteria blood pressure, blood sugar and blood oxygen is shown. In this image you can see that only TestDB2 has values for all three criteria. TestDB6 for example has values for blood pressure and blood oxygen but has no data about the blood sugar. (RPR)
Storyboard Prototype: Update Procedure (German CFP)


A critical function of the data source search system is that it is updated on a regular basis. A main issue of Bayer’s current system, the “capture reference database” is that it never has been updated.
To insert data into such a system there are two potential options: Centralized or decentralized inserting. In the centralized scenario a single dedicated entity is responsible for keeping the system up to date. However this entity relies strongly on the informations of the users of the system. The users might therefore send their findings and updates to the centralized entity which then inserts the data into the system.
Different in the decentralized scenario: here the users of the system are responsible for the updates. The system gives them the possibility to directly enter findings and updates and therefore no central authority is needed.
Both possibilities have their advantages, therefore we want to use this prototype to explore how the actual users will judge. (RPR) 


Fig X+6: Update scenario 1:  “decentralized” procedure


In the first scenario illustrated in Figure X+6 the user who has now and interesting information and adds it directly. One advantage of this procedure is, that information can be added quick and cheap. No central authority is needed, this saves costs and communication overhead.
On the other hand it takes more time for the individual user, as he has to aggregate all information needed, familiarize himself with the update procedure and will always remain responsible for the data. In case of other employees having questions concerning the data source they will always address him, this can also be seen as an advantage because it helps to connect Bayer employees across the company.
As we can see the update takes a lot of the users’ time without giving him a personal advantage. This may lead to the situation currently experienced with the “capture reference database”, users “forget” to send in their updates. In this scenario the users would have to be either forced by strong regulation or rewarded by giving them incentives for their updates. (RPR)











Figure X+6: Update scenario 2 “centralized” procedure


In the case of the decentralized scenario the user sends the information he has to a central authority which then adds the data into the system.
An advantage of this scenario is that a person who works with the system on a regular basis is much more efficient in using it, therefore a central authority might be much faster in adding data into the system.
Additionally a central authority can ensure the quality of the data inserted into the system which leads to a more useful system for the users.
On the other hand a central authority causes communication overhead, especially if some information is missing at the user has to be asked, maybe several times.
Another disadvantage is that qualified and trained personnel is required to build the central authority, this leads to additional cost.
A last point to mention is, that a central authority does not know the data source as well as the user who has worked with it and therefore miss some information.
(RPR)