8 Vision and Next Steps / Future Work


The last months was a deep dive into the problem space. We conducted a lot research, benchmarking and needfinding. We gained a lot of insights and already worked through many ideas. 
The next steps will be on the one hand to build onto some of these ideas. We will test our prototypes further and try to incorporate all the received feedback into them in the hope that evolving prototypes really fit the needs of the Bayer employees. In this way we will try to find the best process to share knowledge about data sources between all RLE employees. We will also try to find the best user interface for such a collection of knowledge about data sources. An easy way to find and compare them, as well as an easy way to actually get the data from the source.
We will improve and expand our prototypes further and further until they are perfect.


On the other hand we will try to work in different directions than the one before. Next to trying to improve or create software, we will look into improving the communication of Bayer employees working with RLE and we will try to make the process of sharing knowledge a more rewarding experience. Both are essential to the overall RLE experience as we have learned


Next Steps to look into
* can a small/wearable device to a meaningful analysis? 
* * e.g. can blood samples be analyzed in a small device or do you need a lab to get accurate results?
* same applies for a “toilet tracker” ^^ can that shit be analyzed to produce meaningful medical results?
* what exactly is done in clinical trials to get data, can we do it? do they take blood samples, would urine samples be enough? …
* Prototype Scenario as Uber bracelet follow-up: Medical scenario, have a tracker that shares your information with your doctor and a medical company and assist you on your treatment and gives feedback on your process of recovery from an illness (or on your preventive healthcare) => the app could be your “doctor” and give analyze your results and tell you how you’re doing (or if you should visit a real doctor)






In the future we will have the following design requirements: I DONT KNOK - who’s there? 







Project Timeline future


Date
	Deliverable
	Description
	16.1.2014
	Dark Horse Prototype
	Prototype(s) with maximum craziness and reward potential 
	23.1.2014
	Dark Horse Prototype 2.0
	Iteration of the first DHP
	6.2.2014
	Funky Prototype
	Prototype a multifunctional system
	27.2.2014
	Functional System Prototype
	Prototype a multifunctional system
	6.3.2014
	Functional System Prototype 2.0
	Iteration of the first FP
	13.3.2014
	Winter Presentation
	Presentation of the Winter term session 
	TBD
	Winter Documentation
	Documentation of the Winter term session 
	TBD
	Travel to Germany
	Work together in the whole team in Potsdam and enjoying Beer
	TBD
	Travel to Finland
	Work together in the whole team in Helsinki and enjoying Sauna