Vision and Next Steps 

The last months were a deep dive into the problem space. We conducted a lot of research, benchmarking and needfinding. We gained a lot of insights and already worked through some ideas. 
Defining the vision 
Our ultimate goal is find design a product that can make a real difference in people’s everyday lives. (right?)
Next steps
For our next steps we will build on top of some of the aforementioned insights. We will test our prototypes further and try to incorporate all the received feedback into them in the hope that the evolving prototypes really fit the needs of the actual users. This way we will try to find the best process to share knowledge about data sources or even how to generate those. We consider the final design solution being succeed if the it benefits RLE employees but also everyday medicine users. 
To take our learnings even further we will try to work in different directions than the one before. Next to trying to improve or create software, we will look into improving the communication of Bayer employees working with RLE and we will try to make the process of sharing knowledge a more rewarding experience. Both are essential to the overall RLE experience as we have learned

Next Steps to look into
* can a small/wearable device do a meaningful analysis? 
* e.g. can blood samples be analyzed in a small device or do you need a lab to get accurate results?
* same applies for a “toilet tracker” can it be analyzed to produce meaningful medical results?
* what exactly is done in clinical trials to get data, can we do it? do they take blood samples, would urine samples be enough?
* Prototype Scenario as Uber bracelet follow-up: Medical scenario, have a tracker that shares your information with your doctor and a medical company and assist you on your treatment and gives feedback on your process of recovery from an illness (or on your preventive health care) => the app could be your “doctor” and give you analysis results and tell you how you’re doing (or if you should visit a real doctor)




Project Timeline for the spring 2014


Date
	Deliverable
	Description
	16.1.2014
	Dark Horse Prototype
	Prototype(s) with maximum craziness and reward potential 
	23.1.2014
	Dark Horse Prototype 2.0
	Iteration of the first DHP
	6.2.2014
	Funky Prototype
	Prototype a multifunctional system
	27.2.2014
	Functional System Prototype
	Prototype a multifunctional system
	6.3.2014
	Functional System Prototype 2.0
	Iteration of the first FP
	13.3.2014
	Winter Presentation
	Presentation of the Winter term session 
	no date yet
	Winter Documentation
	Documentation of the Winter term session 
	no date yet
	Travel to Germany
	Work together in the whole team in Potsdam and enjoying Beer
	no date yet
	Travel to Finland
	Work together in the whole team in Helsinki and enjoying Sauna