Vision and Next Steps 

The last months were a deep dive into the problem space. We conducted a lot of research, benchmarking and needfinding. We gained a lot of insights and already worked through some ideas. 
Big picture vision 
Our ultimate goal is designing a product that can make a real difference in people’s everyday lives. Considering the needs of our project sponsor Bayer we aim at finding underlying problems leading to more impactful solutions. People today are getting more and more aware of their own health and new innovations and solutions are constantly being developed to make it easier for everyone to stay in a good health and condition. The network of these emerging trends is just becoming visible and we want to make Bayer aware of it so they can embrace this evolution, be part of this change to a brighter future of medicine and gain benefit out of it. Interaction with patients and healthcare providers is playing a vital role in medical development and the information flow has to work bidirectionally. With this vision in mind the final outcome is sure to benefit both the healthcare professionals and the end users of their products. We see our product embracing these future changes rather than aiming for short-term solutions. 
Next steps


For our next steps we will build on top of the aforementioned insights. We will test our prototypes further and try to incorporate all the received feedback into them in the hope that the evolving prototypes really fit the needs of the actual users. This way we will try to find the best process to share knowledge about data sources or even how to generate those. We consider the final design solution being a success if the it benefits RLE employees but also everyday medicine users. 

To take our learnings even further we will try to work in different directions than the one before. Next to trying to improve or create software, we will look into improving the communication of Bayer employees working with RLE and we will try to make the process of sharing knowledge a more rewarding experience. Both are essential to the overall RLE experience as we have learned.
* 


Next Steps to look into
* can a small/wearable device do a meaningful analysis? 
* e.g. can blood samples be analyzed in a small device or do you need a lab to get accurate results?
* same applies for a “toilet tracker” can it be analyzed to produce meaningful medical results?
* what exactly is done in clinical trials to get data, can we do it? do they take blood samples, would urine samples be enough?
* Prototype Scenario as Uber bracelet follow-up: Medical scenario, have a tracker that shares your information with your doctor and a medical company and assist you on your treatment and gives feedback on your process of recovery from an illness (or on your preventive health care) => the app could be your “doctor” and give you analysis results and tell you how you’re doing (or if you should visit a real doctor)




Project Timeline for the spring 2014


Date
	Deliverable
	Description
	16.1.2014
	Dark Horse Prototype
	Prototype(s) with maximum craziness and reward potential 
	23.1.2014
	Dark Horse Prototype 2.0
	Iteration of the first DHP
	6.2.2014
	Funky Prototype
	Prototype a multifunctional system
	27.2.2014
	Functional System Prototype
	Prototype a multifunctional system
	6.3.2014
	Functional System Prototype 2.0
	Iteration of the first FP
	13.3.2014
	Winter Presentation
	Presentation of the Winter term session 
	no date yet
	Winter Documentation
	Documentation of the Winter term session 
	no date yet
	Travel to Germany
	Work together in the whole team in Potsdam and enjoying Beer
	no date yet
	Travel to Finland
	Work together in the whole team in Helsinki and enjoying Sauna