7 This is how we roll (Team & Project Management) 


This is how we roll! But who are we? The following section shall introduce the global team and give an insight on how we worked together as a team. Therefore we will talk about communication and supporting tools used and present the separate tasks, which had to be solved during the fall semester. At the end of this chapter the team does a reflection of the project. Also each member has a chance to present his or her personal view on the project, teamwork and progress. (CS)




The Design Team 


We are a joint project between the Aalto University in Helsinki, Finland and the Hasso Plattner Institute in Potsdam, Germany and consisting of 4 German and 3 Finnish team members. (TJ)


[a]


Team photo with member names and their background 


The Finnish Team:


Delete this row later!
Photo[b]
	Name + Email?
	Short Description
	

	Clemens Westrup
	

	

	Katja Virta
	

	

	Martti Jerkku
	

	

The German Team:


Delete this row later!
Photo
	Name + Email?
	Short Description
	

	Christopher Schmidt
christopher.schmidt@student.hpi.uni-potsdam.de
	

	

	Tino Junge tino.junge@student.hpi.uni-potsdam.de
	Tino the communication representative
	

	Manuel Hegner manuel.hegner@student.hpi.uni-potsdam.de
	

	

	Rui-Paulo Ruhrländer p.ruhrlaender@codeispoetry.de
	

	

Teaching Team


Finnish TAs


Dr. Matthias Uflacker
matthias.uflacker@hpi.uni-potsdam.de


Franziska Häger
franziksa.haeger@hpi.uni-potsdam.de


Thomas Kowark
thomas.kowark@hpi.uni-potsdam.de


Kai-Adrian Rollmann
kai-adiran.rollmann@student.hpi.uni-potsdam.de


Communication & Tools


Communication in the team changed over time. Of course within each local team (German/Finland) the exchange of information happened almost always face-to-face, whereas for the global communication calls using Google hangouts were used.
At the beginning these hangouts happened twice a week, with one call having a set time on Wednesdays and another one on-demand Fridays or Mondays, depending on the demand. The hangout would include all members of the local teams.
We quickly realized that having all members participate in the calls created a huge overhead. For example through time spent waiting until all members were present or through discussions that erupted within the teams, were everyone participated. Soon the whole idea to share the key information was lost and we spent a lot of time in the hangouts without a lot of benefit.
Thus we changed the communication behavior and introduced one to one hangouts, where a representative of each team presented new insights to the other team. With only 2 persons in a hangout we found out that there was less distraction and the process of passing the key information was shorter and more effective. We also changed to rather unscheduled on-demand calls, still at least once a week, to allow sharing information when it was really needed. Although the communicator has to pass on the information into the local team after the hangout, the exchange of key findings and insights improved and the time spent for it is reduced.
For the future we will also start changing the responsible person for the one to one hangout, in order to encourage teambuilding.
(CS)




Hangouts & Skype


Google hangout is the main communication channel for global and German local communication. We use it to pass messages asynchronously via the chat, mostly within a whole group. Therefore we are using a German, Finnish and Global hangout group chat. Other than chatting hangouts and sometimes Skype is used for phone and/or video calls, depending on the participating members and their personal preference. (CS)




Mail


Besides the hangout, which is the main communication channel within the global team, we are also using e-mail. E-mail is a second channel; whose primarily use is the communication with our liaison at Bayer. All relevant e-mail correspondence between our team’s representative and the liaison is forwarded to all team members using a mailing list. (CS)




Drive & OwnCloud


We found out that using Google drive is very helpful for storing and sharing information and that some of the integrated Google collaboration tools were good as well. Google document is an example, which works well when working on smaller written documents together. We also tried out Google draw in order to create and design diagrams or drawings together, but found the functionality a little bit restricting. We quickly found another solution to support us when creating these diagrams and drawings.
In order to store larger inputs like videos we use OwnCloud as this is hosted within the HPI and we have more storage available compared to Google drive. OwnCloud also comes in handy for storing more private data that should not be shared with any third-party other than the HPI or Aalto, since again it is hosted within the HPI. (CS)




kippt


Kippt is a web service, which stores links that you want to save for later and share with friends. We found that service very useful, as we did a lot of online research to familiarize ourselves with the topic. By storing links to the relevant sources in a shared store everyone was able to read through the important input. As the main kippt list was growing quite fast, it was soon necessary to separate the links into relevant topics and use several lists instead. (CS)







Murally


When it comes to collaboration tools Google drawings was mentioned above as an example that did not work that well for our use case. Therefore our team is using Murally now. Murally is a visual collaborative tool that we use to structure data, like the local teams would do on a whiteboard with post-its. Although the physical whiteboard is a quicker way to interact and is used a lot within the local team, we found Murally very useful when we worked in a global team on the same board. It offers the possibility that everyone can add ideas, remove or rearrange them. For us the murals created a basis on which both teams could build on top of. (CS)




Trello


Besides communication and collaboration tools, we also used a task management tool in order to schedule and distribute the work. For that specific task we use Trello, which allows the creation of task-boards, where tasks are arranged in lists. In our case a new board is created for every week and all relevant tasks to achieve a certain goal by the end of the week were added in the “ToDo”-list of the board. As soon as a team member starts to work on a task, he or she assigns it to him- or herself and moves the task into the “Doing” list. Once finished it will be moved in a third and last list “Done” of the board.
By keeping such a strict structure and process, we are able to stay very focused on the goal for the week. It also enables us to keep track of who is working on which task right now in order to support them or add valuable ideas to the right persons in the team. Also it avoids doing work twice. We also find it helpful to have one team member responsible to maintain the Trello boards and keep an overview on the progress. (CS)




Deliverables (basically just a list linking to actual deliverbles in the document) (tj)
Personas
Posters
Interviews
Brochure
        CFP
CEP
        Presentation 
Documentation




Due Date
	Deliverable
	Description
	October 24-29
	Team Formation
	Team was formed during the ME310 Kickoff week in Stanford, setting up communitcation infrastructure 
	November 14
	Interviews & Persona
	Benchmarking of the topic with Interviews and creating the first Personas
	November 21
	Point of View
	Setting up the first PoV from the insights we got from the interviews with Bayer employees 
	December 5
	CFP/CEP
	Created Uber-Bracelet, Prezi and Software-Paper-Prototype
	December 12
	Fall Presentation 
	Presented the first commonly created prototype and insights from benchmarking & needfinding
	December 19
	Fall Documentation
	Document the Design process
	



Project Budget
Finland
Nothing from the prototyping budget has been spent in the Fall term.
Germany


Period
	Purchase Description
	Purchased From
	Purpose
	Cost
	Budget remaining
	

	

	

	

	

	5000 €
	Fall
	Fall presentation incentives
	Edeka
	Fall presentation
	5,56 €
	4994,44 €
	

Looking back (better name for how did it go?)
Project Log        
        Reflections
        Individual Reflections
[a]With or without our DataPharmers team name?
[b]@Everyone: please provide a photo and a short description