Current vision:


“Gerard needs a solution for interfacing with data to answer questions and enhance executive decision making.”


We believe executives should be able to intuitively and instantly interface with data to help make decisions that steer the future of a company. They shouldn’t have to rely on IT staff and software they don’t understand to access and visualize information that helps them make important decisions. 


Our solution will bring an information platform to the boardroom which is custom built for high-level executives by improving upon standard BI packages in several key ways. One, our platform will be tied to the boardroom with an intuitive natural interface. Two, it will represent the state of the company in a form that provides context to discussions or presentations in the boardroom. Three, the 




Dark Horse Ideas:
* Infosculpture: a physical representation of the current state of the company. Different mechanical aspects will represent key attributes of Siemens (e.g. the height of a mechanical lever may represent the stock price relative to the previous day). Only the C-class executives and upper management will be aware of the interpretation.
* Pod: a new perspective on the boardroom. This is not a vacation home, but rather a single room meant to focus the mind to enhance decision making. C-class executives will be able to hike/travel/boat/etc. to a single room stocked to support them for 48 hours. The room will contain everything necessary to the employee for work, comfort, and entertainment purposes. This darkhorse challenges the idea that we need more data or a better representation of the existing data to make better decisions; rather, we may make better decisions with the existing data if we have a different mindset.
* Holograms
* Mechanical Man
* 

Due next week:
version 1.0, just do something
version 2.0, if its working keep going with it
version 3.0, deliver


age assumption of the executive
siemens proprietary assumption
employee tv in the boardroom
how to engage german executives
tangible business process modeling
ishi at media lab
physical interaction with data
scania boardroom
daily updates to give a hierarchy of discussion topics
big data opinions from the employees
make everything public/open field and transparency
zappos transparency and horizontal structure
holacracy at zappos
talk to adi about his projections