Stefan

The Team
Architecture
Biomedical Engineering
MechE
Computer Science/IT Systems
Stefan

SIEMENS AG, Munich Germany
Chris

The Prompt
Design the Boardroom of the Future

“In this project, we challenge the student team to redesign the experience for decision makers that steer a company’s fortune.”
Chris

The People
Interviews
Persona: Meet Gerard!
Boardrooms are important because of the people
Identified range of user groups, then talked to them
Board of directors, CEOs, Upper management, and their support staff


User Interview Findings
The information points below helped focus the user persona down to a single group.
The CEO does not want new information presented ad-hoc during meetings with the board of directors. A data query system may not be practical for this group.
Managers and the managing committee hold action oriented meetings. This group contains the employees who make significant decisions for the company.
There appears to be a large disconnect between how the IT department would like to operate and what helps the business operation of the company. A solution may want to focus on getting the IT department on the same page as management and executives.
We would like to use information for leverage. Cross-linking departments and streamlining the distillation of information can lead to better and more efficient decisions.
Having an avant-garde boardroom is important to corporations, not only for impressing clients but also for keeping executives and board members excited about the company.
Many boardrooms are already equipped with state-of-the-art technology. To make the boardroom memorable, a drastic change might be in order (i.e. getting rid of the table).

User Persona
The chosen persona for our project falls under the management user group. Members of this group are each responsible for thousands of employees at Siemens. Managers constantly need to access data and make decisions that shape the outcome of their departments and projects. This user group encompasses many needs of the C-class, but they also have the needs of more technical employees of accessing, distilling, and visualizing information.

Name: Gerard				Age: 54
User Group: Management		Position: Senior Vice President, GlobalTech Inc.
Likes: Family time, professionalism, golf, squash, his dog, conciseness
Dislikes: Traffic, procrastination, preparing slides, irrelevant information, clunky software

Needs: Gerard commutes to and from work and uses mobile technology to stay up-to-date. He may call ad-hoc meetings where new information will be presented on the spot. He needs a way to access this information as well as capture any new information presented. He also needs to hold the attention of his employees so that meetings can be efficient and end on time. He needs to be able to remotely conduct meetings during his frequent work travels. Gerard is often frustrated with the response time and many miscommunications with his IT staff.

Why are they worth addressing: The information produced by Gerard and his group will be distilled as it moves to the executives who determine the future of the company. Gerard is also responsible for many employees, so he must have a way to efficiently view and capture all of the information presented to him without losing anything valuable.

Gerard has needs
Hold attention during meetings
Answer spontaneous questions
Track decisions and requirements
Effectively propose projects
Distill information from group to execs
Hayk

Benchmarking: State of the art
Benchmarking: Bleeding edge
Hayk

Chris

Design Options
Chris

Content Designs
Chris

Hardware Designs
Chris

Social Protocols
Chris

Environmental Designs
Chris

Darkhorses
Chris

The Prototype
Stefan
Participants must have a stake, Not distracting→holds attention, Comfort levels, Reasons for feedback, Continuous or multi-dimensional control

Stefan, start it at 4:40

Insights into CFP/CEP
Stefan
Participants must have a stake, Not distracting→holds attention, Comfort levels, Reasons for feedback, Continuous or multi-dimensional control

Back to the future...
In-person meeting with Siemens today
Map idea space to needs of Siemens
Prototype, prototype, prototype
Stefan

Thank you. Q&A
